Mert Iseri: Like a
Mert Iseri: and I just unmuted you.
Mert Iseri: Well, right now they're all everybody. No.
Mert Iseri: maybe a second.
Mert Iseri: No problem. I'll see. It's awesome.
Mert Iseri: Internet
Mert Iseri: go. I don't know
Mert Iseri: for sound like you're good. I love it. Good. We're good.
Mert Iseri: Our 500.
Mert Iseri: It's not gonna get started. No. Do you wanna get an answer
Mert Iseri: ready to do something. Dustin.
Mert Iseri: Yeah, we we deduce there. But you know, like I, I could do this a thousand. So brother, from another brother we met like, kind of in college, but not really right. And we had one very, very like
Mert Iseri: special dinner went over the nerd's place. Yeah. But like.
Mert Iseri: yeah, why is this so much fun? We just talk about startup shit. And it was just like a damn that was like, 12 years ago.
Mert Iseri: So ever since. My journey with techstars getting through it. Every single program has done a talk like this has been involved in this.
Mert Iseri: So I think you'll find that one in a second, but welcome.
Mert Iseri: Thank you.
Mert Iseri: Perfect. Right. Well, as Neil said, my name is Matt
Mert Iseri: Super, excited to meet with you guys. Thanks.
Mert Iseri: Later on in the in the founder talk in the evening we're gonna get into the nitty gritty of the details of my journey so far, but I'll give you guys the clip notes of it upfront.
Mert Iseri: I've been as entrepreneur as far as I can go back like I had the little racket where I sold seashells out of the back of a shoebox when I was like 5, 6 years old like that was like, I remember this. That was really good. I was able to buy ice cream for myself. I thought it was like the greatest thing ever that like. Oh, my God! Like I can't create my own ice cream out of nowhere. This is incredible. And that journey led me to where, like where I am right now.
Mert Iseri: there is really, I would say 2 significant companies that I've had the pleasure of building, one of which I'm building right now, and the other one, which was called Swipes Healthcare Technology Company. By the time I left as CEO I left at the 10 year anniversary, literally 10 years to the date of our pounding. I basically said, This is it. By the time we left we had 8 million and err, and 2 years prior to that we had acquired, we get sold the company for 36 million dollars.
Mert Iseri: Now, the company that I'm currently building right now is called Jabetto.
Mert Iseri: But it was a wildly different story, and the the goal of today's conversations. The 2 sort of like parallel paths I wanted to draw from you guys today is really a comparison of journey A to journey. B.
Mert Iseri: The way I'm building Japan right now is vastly different than how swipes us was built at the time, and the results kind of show for it. It took us 5 years at swipe cents was like a team of 20 people, and we raised millions of dollars to reach half a million dollars an err, and I would say, like shitty margins like it was getting like a good half a million dollars
Mert Iseri: at Capeto from 9 months to the day of hiring corporation. We had half a million dollars in Aaron at 98.8% margin, with 2 dudes and my co-founder.
Mert Iseri: The journeys are vastly different. The habits that I'm employing are vastly different. And today I'm not gonna share with you guys like anything like groundbreaking or like the secret sauce of Jeff Bezos that no one has ever learned but me like, I'm gonna share with you guys. My playbooks like these are the things that I'm practically putting in place right now as an operator. That hope is instructed for you all
Mert Iseri: in between my journeys of building companies. I've worked as an AR at a month at a bunch of venture funds, also in tech stars and 3 programs. So I've had the pleasure of interacting with dozens and dozens and dozens of entrepreneurs, and I see all too often the things that I used to do as a founder being regular things to do for every founders who are getting into this journey.
Mert Iseri: So
Mert Iseri: let's jump in and stop talking about homemade.
Mert Iseri: I eat mobile every day is is very, very funny.
Mert Iseri: I just remarkably.
Mert Iseri: That's that's how you get there. Not the 1 billion dollars.
Mert Iseri: I was on the loops.
Mert Iseri: We're gonna talk about 2 things today, no more, no less. Now.
Mert Iseri: each session. I'm gonna follow up by basically free office hours. And I would
Mert Iseri: we? We have, like some sign up sheets for you guys to to jump on board. If you want to start one on one time with me. Here's what I would like to say right upfront.
Mert Iseri: Get like 15 min. What the fuck are we gonna talk about in 15 min like I like?
Mert Iseri: That's not enough time to actually resolve anything. So what I recommend is use that 15 min with almost like an extended QA. Wanna double click on something we can chat, get to know each other, use it as a trigger on. Why, I should spend it out with you like that is basically what I think is a good use of that 15 min, and then afterwards we can get to know each other. And now I'm selected with my time, like I don't like to like, connect every I got a day job to like. I'm running company, as you guys.
Mert Iseri: Sure, and if people are like buying for your time, you should be saying no to them as well. But I have a soft cart for founders. I love techstars in general. I want to be part of this community as much as I can, so if we interrupt in those 15 min. Who knows? Maybe we can spend more time together.
Mert Iseri: 2 topics.
Mert Iseri: very, very, very, very like, I'm obsessive about these 2 things. I have a belief that as a startup founder should basically be doing 2 things with your time. And one of them is actually not doing something. So it's even easier. All you gotta do is not do that thing.
Mert Iseri: The first thing is, you can charge more. I think you should be spending all of your waking hours and some of your sleeping hours figuring how you charge more for your product.
Mert Iseri: and what I mean by that isn't just necessarily increasing your prices. You keep a price, say, but if you charge more like, they keep your prices the same. More people are, gonna buy your shit like it's it's as simple as that, like we sometimes like, forget this like pretty fundamental truth, that you know what most of your problems in your business would kind of go away if your customers just paid you more or like, if they acknowledge that you're delivering them more valuable. This is all that matters like.
Mert Iseri: If you have a travel business, of unique experiences, of how IE. And like all you gotta do is get a better travel, experience and figure out how to do that like this, this is your waking hours. This. This is what we obsess over
Mert Iseri: now. The second thing you should be thinking about is, you need more time. You need to earn time.
Mert Iseri: because it's hard to figure out how to deliver more value. This is why we're all here. This is why we're obsessing over this shit. It's hard as spot to figure out how to charge one for your product, and the function of that is tight. If you run out of time. There is no save game in this video game. You die the game over, start over like you don't get to keep those items. You just get to move on, and the way you earn more time is the direct function of your spending.
Mert Iseri: I have a strong belief that you should be spending shit on shit like you should not be spending money on anything in your startup. And I want to spend 2 h with you. Telling Kud means, you guys, why, that is the case. But I hope I've already said a few things that you guys disagree with. If I'm seeing all the shit that you agree with all the time, the most point of me being here. But these are strong opinions that I keep close to my heart, and it's working for me so far.
Mert Iseri: So let's jump into our our first topic. I would love to hear from you guys. Let's continue with an analogy of a video game like a startup is a video game that you can win. How do you win a startup?
Mert Iseri: What I what it is? Let's go ahead from boost perspective because, the main condition there is to have successful exit where I, as the founding shareholder, have ability to exit my shares more than I purchase them, for
Mert Iseri: are you personally for a pay? Yeah, like, so it's pretty low bar like, so so 2 months is that is that winning alright ability to access financial freedom, or what they call like the financial independence, retire early type situation where you don't have to work for money anymore. No longer a wage fuck, you money, fuck you money. It's a great outcome.
Mert Iseri: You guys have what phone anyone is? Oh, yeah, it's before you hang up the phone. You say, fuck you
Mert Iseri: not after Chicago? Very good money. Okay? Well, that's a good one. What else?
Mert Iseri: Ideal? It's a different kind of exit. By the way, I wrote a book called Exit right on how to sell your startup. It's basically everything I've learned selling my first startup. I will get you guys copy if you guys would like. And if you guys are nice, I might even monograther.
JT - Dubprime: Oh, God!
Mert Iseri: Ipo is basically another exit. You just sell your company to the public. So again, selling your company. What else? I mean? Selling company sounds all good. How do you sell your company? Go ahead. You create an exceptional amount of value in the world for other people. Yeah, yeah, that's I think that's directionally way more interesting than just selling your company because you sell a shitty company
Mert Iseri: like it's actually not that unheard of for companies that are not so great to be acquired. So I don't think that's a good sort of like goal. We should be creating a shit out of value. Okay, that's direction more correct. What else? I mean? Enough. Those here from your startups as well, like what is exceptional value for your company, like what would be like a dream outcome for a company where we'd be like. Wow! I've left my market in this one. I've righted this wrong that I've set up to to correct.
Mert Iseri: What is that for you guys, anyway? Go ahead. Okay. Fantastic, great. What else? And it's mental wellness for everyone every day. Okay, that's also fantastic. Great
Mert Iseri: go ahead, Leslie.
Mert Iseri: I'd love to have made the defect to stand out in the world using our I couldn't follow. Can you explain a little bit? They want to do something they that the first thing they have in mind is our service. Okay, what's what's your company? Again.
Mert Iseri: really, really useful tool? Let me definitely connect afterwards.
Mert Iseri: But the short answer is, this product market fit? Now everybody and their sister has a different definition for product market fit? I have a very literal and what works for me, I basically just pick something that I want infinite amounts of. Again, if this is a video game, there's certain things that I want infinite of. I want to write the cheat code that I get infinite of those things. And those things are 2 things I want profitability. I want predictability.
Mert Iseri: Do you guys follow Mark Pennyoff on Twitter, the CEO of Salesforce
Mert Iseri: cold dude like really, really like solid operator, like one of the legends of our time when it comes to like Sas like inventive categories.
Mert Iseri: This dude every once in a while tweets
Mert Iseri: salesforce revenue like 7.2 billion dollars 2015, 2016, not 9.7. What up? And then like 2025, 17.5 billion dollars estimate.
Mert Iseri: And he always fucking gets these numbers like, what is this like? The luckiest motherfucker in the world like it, like, just always puts up these numbers. No, it's because his business is insanely predictable.
Mert Iseri: and at the same time is insanely profitable. If we have figured out how to create profitable and predictable customers, we've kind of won the game, because if we do this, that means everything that we're saying about like creating impact for our customers is true. That means we are creating an outside amount of value. They're paying us a fair number for that thing, and it's predictable because we have control over our shit like we understand what happens in our business cycle, this lever, this other thing happens.
Mert Iseri: This is our job. We have to create a world where our business has profitable and predictable customers. So this is topic number one today. To me I define value as this. Now we have to have a system.
Mert Iseri: We have to have a way to get to this outcome profitable and predictable customers.
Mert Iseri: Now, the value is just like an interesting thing.
Mert Iseri: How does your startup create value? We've hinted at this already. I want you guys to be not be very literal about it? Imagine my grandma!
Mert Iseri: Bless her soul! She is in her 90 S.
Mert Iseri: Doesn't know what Cac is, doesn't know what Roy is like. There's no shit about like any of these like fancy startup terms. What cloud is.
Mert Iseri: I want you guys to describe what your startup creates how your startup creates value. As if my grandmother was here. Go ahead.
Mert Iseri: You literally enable transactions that would not otherwise have.
Mert Iseri: But what transactions money? Okay, financial engagement powers.
Mert Iseri: Okay, great. So you you a lot. But what happens when I make this transaction?
Mert Iseri: So okay, and if you want that, I'll give you that answer. We help musicians make more money. Okay.
Mert Iseri: save that share. Right? There, that's it. You help positions make more money. That's value. Okay? Awesome. What else? Go ahead.
Mert Iseri: His conversion rates and his sales for the region
Mert Iseri: you help retailers make more money locked in. Move on. Next.
Mert Iseri: you know, travelers, access experiences that they wouldn't otherwise be able to find some research.
Mert Iseri: Okay, so you help them save time.
Mert Iseri: like, otherwise, we're taking an exorbitant amount of time to find us, and now they save time. But I also think you also help the people who sell those travel packages to help them make more money like those people provide those services. They're your customers, too, like not just the people booking this travel sort of.
Mert Iseri: So they don't make money.
Mert Iseri: These like unique cultural experiences are like in addition to their regular operation. And so so they don't make money. Why, they do it.
Mert Iseri: Mission
Mert Iseri: anyone.
Mert Iseri: Okay, I I'm a little skeptical of this. We'll double click on this a little bit later, but I just don't think it's good enough like, Oh, my God! Like people feel really great about doing such great, what else?
Mert Iseri: Go ahead.
Mert Iseri: We don't
Mert Iseri: employers, higher quality and success
Mert Iseri: faster. Okay? So they're gonna hire those people. And they are now able to do the exact same thing. But they do faster. Okay. Fantastic. What else? Go ahead, make lending more profitable and predictable.
Mert Iseri: Who's Landon?
Mert Iseri: So Fintech? Such as crime or credit unions or community banks.
Mert Iseri: you upgrade your needs, make more money.
Mert Iseri: Great. Okay? Awesome. One more. Let's do one more. How will your posture started valley, go ahead and so forth.
Mert Iseri: And what happens? The day of Friday? Yeah, there was money. They've risked.
Mert Iseri: I think there's 4 ways of creating value like, there's basically every startup on this face of this planet creates value in one of 1, 2, 3, 4 ways.
Mert Iseri: In that order it's more valuable if you do one versus 2. You either help somebody make more money. You either help them save some money, you help them move faster, or you reduce risk. We kind of went through all of this. The know your customer as an Api reduces risk. The hiring solution helps people move faster. The people who save money, they would have paid a fortune for trial experience. They save a little bit money, and people who are otherwise able to lend. They help people make more money
Mert Iseri: if you do more than one of these things. Oh, my God! Even like life is great! But if you are describing what you do, not as a subset of these 4 things you are fucked, it does not matter.
Mert Iseri: And what matters to you what might not matter to your customer. So now I want to ask the same question again.
Mert Iseri: And, by the way, this is a fun little exercise. But you can pick a startup, Netflix, and challenge yourself in describing. What does Netflix do? That's sort of like one of these 4 ways, and you'll be surprised, like successful companies that you just wall up the time. Well, they have to use little money like happy people, save time to my social like. It's a very easy thing to describe what successful companies do in one of those preferably more of those 4 ways.
Mert Iseri: Now, I want you guys to again challenge yourself and let's pick some new people here. Try to really challenge yourself in describing what your startup does in one of those 4 ways.
Mert Iseri: And again, it should roll off your tongue.
Mert Iseri: Anyone
Mert Iseri: go ahead. What does your startup? Do you know employees save money
Mert Iseri: with the Rsus, the the insurance, or for stock options? Very, very neat idea. And you also help them make money like they. They literally would have lost things that we can fuck them those Rsus. And now, like magical money, appeared from the outside. You also help them save time because they could go out there and buy those themselves. But they can just come to you guys and you take care of all that. Okay. Awesome. And oh, by the way, they reduce risk also because it's risky to get paid in. Rc.
Mert Iseri: Oh, my God! Tax money less fucking good boys like pretty good.
Mert Iseri: It always comes down to these one of these 4 things, and whenever I meet a new startup I try to imagine. Can I articulate what they do in one of these 4 ways? If the answer is, no, that's probably a good starting point like it just means you're not delivering enough value, like I love what you said about Mission. It's it's great. Obviously it's close to my heart as well like swipe sense. Literally, my Healthcare Tech Company. We saved lives.
Mert Iseri: and I'm not saying this as like a you know, we held the ear from here to here, and then a polar bear didn't die. And then this person that. No, no, no! Like swipe sense, healthcare, safety technology, we measure in hospitals and improved over time how much people washed their hands.
Mert Iseri: and it turns out that if you wash your hands more in hospitals, literally less. People die because of hospital acquired infections. As a matter of fact, tens of thousands of patients die in the Us. Every single year because of this problem to this date.
Mert Iseri: So like I would come in waving that flag. I was like, Hey, guys like less people die, less people die. And unless I could articulate it as a measure of risk for the hospital, or how much money they were gonna make, or how much money they were, gonna save they would not listen. I cared. They didn't care like. It's it's a simple. It's as simple as that. Now
Mert Iseri: go ahead. Okay. So you know how, for this value that you were talking about the how do you apply it to
Mert Iseri: B, to B, or B to C, or in our case we're a 2 sided marketplace. So B to B to C, so would you do that same value. Chain for both marketplace is just the same company with 2 doors. One door is for the vendor, one doors for the for the customer. We have to articulate value differently to both of those people. Netflix also has 2 customers. Studios is one.
Mert Iseri: I have a customer like people who sell the content, and Netflix, and will do people the subscription, and we have to describe our value in very, very little chunks to capture those people's attention. Why should they give a shit. Why should I take time out of my day and gas money out of my pocket to give to you? I've worked very hard to earn my money. Why should I give it to you? You better have a really compelling reason.
Mert Iseri: Now this is what this comes out.
Mert Iseri: I've never seen a company go out of business because they created too much value. It's like, maybe that has happened twice in the history of startups, but not a third time. Like.
Mert Iseri: if you wanna overdo something, create more value for your customers.
Mert Iseri: But it's it's really as simple as that. But creating value by itself isn't enough.
Mert Iseri: We have to have a specific kind of value, like more value, maybe means more profitable. You charge more for your get real products like more people use it. We also want it to be predictable, like, I wanna make sure that my value comes from not the sort of like level activities we're like, Oh, my God! Like we struggle so hard in this like amazing thing happen at the end of the month. I want my sales. I'm not my doubts, but almost boring. I want it to be like a mathematical function. Well, I made this. Many calls that many calls led to this, many demos that many demos led to this many contracts that many contracts that this many signatures employ.
Mert Iseri: What a life
Mert Iseri: we should do double that next month. Let's just run the same play, but just do more of it.
Mert Iseri: This, to me, is what a happy company looks like like. It's not one of those things where, like
Mert Iseri: what the book are we doing this week? Oh, my God! Like I can't believe we're gonna prepare for this like life, changing, meeting whatever like. Why, why, I don't want that. I want it to be like.
Mert Iseri: I'm sitting here. This is my week. Everything is straightforward. I just know a little bit more about that, and next week is a little bit better. It's predictable.
Mert Iseri: Predictable means you're fundable. Now, fundable is a very, very specific term that I'm using in here. I'm not just saying you're investable.
Mert Iseri: I'm saying you're fundable as a business.
Mert Iseri: and your job, if you have profitable and printable customers, is to be as fundable as you possibly can be. All this means is.
Mert Iseri: you have an amazing story to raise on like, if you think about the like, Peel, the onion back.
Mert Iseri: and just ask yourself what happens in fundraising like, what are we actually literally doing? I am taking your money. Let me just take that for you real quick. This is your money. It's my money now. Great in exchange. I'm gonna give you like this laptop and this laptop back down the road with the promise, oh, I'm gonna give you more money down the road like we're convincing an investor that, hey? Give me your money. I'll beat the market for you
Mert Iseri: like. Why are they putting in the Smp? 508 year over year? It ain't that bad.
Mert Iseri: They're giving you the money to you. So you give them like 3 times the money in 2 years, 3 years, 5 years! Whatever the time arises, they're not giving it to you because they believe in your mission.
Mert Iseri: They're not giving it to you because you're tall and bald, and a green eyes like no like they're doing it with a very, very straightforward promise now
Mert Iseri: not promise to be believable.
Mert Iseri: and if my business is fundable, meaning that I can put a dollar in it and take out $1.7 on a predictable basis.
Mert Iseri: That's a pretty good story to ask you for your money, because I can say like, Hey, look! I know I'm taking that laptop right now. But trust me in a year I'm gonna have 1.7 laptops. And here's how like, here's the math
Mert Iseri: like you almost wanted to be like, damn man like.
Mert Iseri: do we really save that money like
Mert Iseri: cause? We could just figure out other sources of data like, if this deal is so good, I should just sell my house and put it in the in the business, because I know I'm gonna get more of it back like it should feel like that to you, whereas if you're feeling like that, I would really like sound my house for this like I I don't know like it's not good. It's not that predictable yet. Then maybe a question to ask yourself, like, Okay, like, is there something about the business that we can change? All this means that you can underline aggressively, aggressively, spend money
Mert Iseri: with the confidence that you're going to make more money in the back.
Mert Iseri: I have aggressively spent money in the past for my businesses. It did not go so well like I built like, oh, you know what we should spend this much on on digital ads like just just increase that spend. Wanted to make my fault like I did that I gotta have a big sales team. I'm just hiring some rep to grow my team from one rep to 10 reps like, that's what we're gonna do. Whatever hold chess
Mert Iseri: I should have done. And I'm going to walk, you guys through the the process here today, like I should have done in a way that is way way more predictable.
Mert Iseri: But once it's predictable, then you jam like, I know some of you play poker. Neil is a big poker player, big Fan, I think poker in in many, many ways mirror startups, and for those of you who don't play poker. It's a card game where you've got some cards, and you that's based on what? How good your cards are compared to your opponents cards.
Mert Iseri: One of the first things you learn in play, Booker is, you play very few hands, as in you fold most of the hands that you're dealt you just hold up is they're not good enough, but the ones you choose to play you're aggressively like. If it's good enough to play, it's good enough to race.
Mert Iseri: Similar approach happens in startups. You should try out a ship out of ideas. You should try out, experiment. Figure this out, but if you're not paying out fools. Wait. That person didn't want good fire. That ad campaign didn't work out after you spent $100. Prior, we're not doing it anymore. But the ones that are working. If you've tapped around and find some oil them all in jam jam, whatever we've got in there, all the resources in there, like wealth, is creating concentrated positions. And this is one of those examples like, if you see something that is working, we have to aggressively pursue it.
Mert Iseri: That means that you build some money printer like that is the closest analogy that I can give to what your business is ultimately trying to achieve. Like you are building a factory. This factory has activities, your time, effort, energy, whatever goes into it, out comes more money. This is it. It doesn't matter if your customers are like doing automation
Mert Iseri: using AI, or if they're doing, know your customer stuff, or if they're using a travel plan, and that's fine, whatever. It is, none of that matters, and to an investor also none of that matters like, show me how a dollar goes into the same, and more dollars come out the other side with a high degree of confidence. You build the money printer congratulations.
Mert Iseri: and once you realize this, you quickly, I think, end up with this conclusion.
Mert Iseri: The best investor you can have is your customer.
Mert Iseri: like their customer.
Mert Iseri: is giving you money hopefully in our pocket.
Mert Iseri: And what are we gonna do with that data? Get the next customer.
Mert Iseri: and then the next customer and the next customer and the next customer, like our ideal outcome, isn't the to build the business that constantly has to raise money to keep going. It should be to get this thing going once.
Mert Iseri: and each customer buys the next customer.
Mert Iseri: That is a thing to aspire like that is a thing to get to. And the way we get there is by raising our prices on building this predictable engine. I'm gonna take a pause in here. Any questions so far, any thoughts, anything you disagree with so far, so good.
Mert Iseri: Go ahead
Mert Iseri: because hit it first, is you mentioned
Mert Iseri: predictability? Yeah,
Mert Iseri: doesn't necessarily. And I'm leaving. There's some package, but it doesn't necessarily need to.
Mert Iseri: Excellent.
Mert Iseri: because at the certain level we don't even have a sophistication in the business. Yeah, to be able to understand whether or not you can't wait to go.
Mert Iseri: Both of them are on day 0. One of them is a wait list of 1,000 customers who gave me that credit card information. Live I I authorized you to charge $1,000 for it. They have no ship yet.
Mert Iseri: but the other company is like, Hey, you know what? I got a great idea. It's gonna be awesome thing that when this thing is live it's gonna work. Yes.
Mert Iseri: Obviously, one of them is way more predictable than the other.
Mert Iseri: Really, it's not. If these are equal companies.
Mert Iseri: I I don't know enough to to to say yes or no on that. But I I think, and I'm part of the process. And maybe so concepts a lot of the things are the last few weeks. Is that
Mert Iseri: full log?
Mert Iseri: Where do I have all my business and isn't necessarily worth it. So the next thing is that's 1 1.
Mert Iseri: What happens is, I guess my question is that should that.
Mert Iseri: That's
Mert Iseri: that's
Mert Iseri: idea that you don't necessarily depart in 6 months. But you have still been invested at that stage.
Mert Iseri: Bye.
Mert Iseri: it kind of goes against the possible.
Mert Iseri: I don't think it does at all, and I can actually double click on this in the first phase of this, like 4 level tower. So let's double click on this in like 4 slides, because I I get this question off. They're like, well, what things are so ambiguous, however, like it's not predictable at all. Let's jump into this in a second, go ahead.
Mert Iseri: Things that are proprietary.
Mert Iseri: like, what? What is proprietary like times? Something like, yes, you're working on something that if it works, it changes, the world doesn't work. Yeah.
Mert Iseri: I have 2 examples where I think predictability matters, drugs.
Mert Iseri: legal ones. The other ones are pretty generic. I think.
Mert Iseri: Drugs.
Mert Iseri: IP really matters and hard science like we're going to space.
Mert Iseri: Is any of you going to space at the moment, sir?
Mert Iseri: Both hardware?
Mert Iseri: Okay. So hardware. You had a patent
Mert Iseri: it's like, and I can't get around that pan is that it's not good hard science, I guess.
Mert Iseri: Question about it is
Mert Iseri: if you're trying to link. I mean, you said you've initially said it won't be happening.
Mert Iseri: I'm Kevin.
Mert Iseri: Yes. First question is, how do we define the core business?
Mert Iseri: So same product, same brand, same color on the plastic. One of them got a pan, the other one got $100,000 in free sales. Which one are you investing
Mert Iseri: the tam like you're forgetting about the tamp. It's the difference between tech stars and Mitel years. Tech stars focuses on the the they focus on traction, whereas Yc. Sells the dream, and transparently your question about the 1,000 people that are added lemonade stand signed up versus the opportunity of investing in one of these companies. I would much rather invest among these companies that 1,000 people signed up for eliminates.
Mert Iseri: I think maybe let's try to change the 10 conversational like we're not here making investment decisions like an investor. You guys are operators. You guys are trying to run a business that seduces things that you like, which is peace of mind, lots of profit like happy customers. Your your business exists to produce happy customers. I don't wanna like be pulled into the sort of like philosophical discussion of like, you know, you need this tool of venture investing like what really matters more, whatever like, of course. But I'm saying you as operators.
Mert Iseri: What makes your day better having a patent like, I don't know. Like, if if you're in a space where this kind of competition really really matters, sure, for most of us mortals. The things we care about is, though I got customers. How happy are those customers? Are they referring me to more business? Does my shit work? Does it break all the time like? Are people so happy that there would riot if I took the product away from them? Those are the kinds of things that I want to make this conversation about.
Mert Iseri: Now.
Mert Iseri: how do we find product market fit like I want to. Now get this to be a lot more tactical like we so far cover sort of like philosophical grounds of things that we would want as a business. I want to make this really easy to hold in our hands.
Mert Iseri: And this is basically what I'm following. I'm gonna share with you guys the things that I used to do, and then things that I do right now as a business. And again, I am an operator, just like you guys, I have customers. I have worries. I have a motherfucker who's not paying his invoice that I'm like texting like I, I get all the same problems. And then some as you guys have.
Mert Iseri: and I want you guys to think of this product market fit as almost like a symbol.
Mert Iseri: And when I was a kid, I really used to love playing with like Legos and connects, and I love building like things that are as tall as possible. Think of this as a tower, this tower called Product fit.
Mert Iseri: It's a leaning piece of tower of product market fit.
Mert Iseri: This tower has 4 levels like it's got 4 floors.
Mert Iseri: Each of these floors is built first with scaffolding like you have to build sort of like this outline of this floor first, and then we pour concrete around it. So the more concrete we have the more sturdy our tower is.
Mert Iseri: Scaffolding means that we have anecdotal evidence like that means that we have good things to talk about about that floor. But it's not
Mert Iseri: what's not concrete. It's not statistical. We don't have evidence around like, yes, this will definitely do what we say. It's going to do so. Scaffolding is anecdotal. Concrete is statistical
Mert Iseri: and scaffolding the problem. Besides the scaffolding, it gets pretty far like it's pretty easy to put something up there with scaffolding with all 4 of these floors and go like, oh, this pretty tall tower!
Mert Iseri: Then people start putting concrete on like the third floor, without putting it on the first one thing like just falls like crumples would start over again.
Mert Iseri: What's really important here is
Mert Iseri: it's so difficult to find product market fit because you can do anything. This is the definition of a startup. You can literally decide to wake up tomorrow morning and decide. Today, I'm gonna run Google glass. Today, I'm gonna work on in my interface. Today, I'm gonna apply for a patent. Today. I'm gonna do this, whatever you can do anything.
Mert Iseri: And often the nuts
Mert Iseri: concrete on a future step feels like a good thing to do. It's a busy thing to do. It was like, all right. We got to build a sales team.
Mert Iseri: Unfortunately, in this particular story order really matters
Mert Iseri: like, I believe there's a step-by-step guide on when we do the scaffolding, and when we do the concrete
Mert Iseri: because you need country on all fours to reach product market fit
Mert Iseri: and concrete on the lower floor makes concrete on the floor above a whole lot easier.
Mert Iseri: You work in all those. This is the default you, of course, I realize I'm an operator like you guys. Of course you do all 4 of these things. And we're gonna get into what those 4 things are. There. You gotta have a strong vision. Gotta have a product that serves that you have to have happy customers. You have to have sales like these things billing each other. And of course I know there's no such thing as like I'm not gonna care about sales. I'm just gonna focus on having a strong vision. Whatever like that's not real. Life realizes you work in all of these things.
Mert Iseri: But you cannot overinvest, because having the content on lawful makes the next level easier.
Mert Iseri: And look, if you make it to all 4 levels, you have product markets that this is the kind of like checklist that I want to partner with. You guys like, if we get to concrete on all 4 of these levels, we're done. That means everything else follows. If you want to raise money, we can sell the product we can. If we just want to grow, make cash that we can. We have optionality as operators. This is what we're sending out to do.
Mert Iseri: And, by the way, like
Mert Iseri: having now raised, I raised over 24 million dollars in my journey as an entrepreneur.
Mert Iseri: I have often found that now I'm realizing this like when I'm telling the story on fundraising, and I'm talking to an investor like describe this landscape like, Hey, we have 4 pores in here. We have like these milestones. We're currently on like scaffolding of Level 3. I got concrete of level one and 2. Here's how I'm not even worried about Level 4 right now. But the goal of this phase is to get concrete on level 3. And when I do that it's gonna unlock this thing like
Mert Iseri: laptop to me, 2 laptops to you. It's a very natural way to describe why you need to spend money to make concrete progress. No pun intended in your business. And this is what I want you guys to sort of like start getting into. And again, whether the funding comes from your profitable customers, whether it comes from your rich uncle, or whether it comes from and do. Some harvest is inconsequential.
Mert Iseri: It is activities that are funded by dollars.
Mert Iseri: and you should be investing in areas that make you more money in your business.
Mert Iseri: Alright. Let's start with the first 4.
Mert Iseri: We've got to have a strong vision. I really believe in this. My definition of a strong vision is one sentence. It's a work
Mert Iseri: like whatever thing that is you're doing, whether it's like saving money on Rsus, whether it's like automating things through Ios, you basically save to the rest of the world. Hey, everybody.
Mert Iseri: this is gonna work.
Mert Iseri: This is what you are saying about. Like we're in the literal ground floor. Business is as day 0 as it gets like we just bought the domain and got a T-shirt printed. I always feel like we're shit awesome.
Mert Iseri: All we're saying is this, if this is gonna work. But even at this level, even at the ground 0 level, I think there's concrete things that we can look for versus scheduled with.
Mert Iseri: Let's look at version one. Scott, this is gonna work
Mert Iseri: team is an experience. By the way, I'm going to share with you guys all these slides. So if you guys feel like you want to like capture some of this stuff, don't worry. All this
Mert Iseri: team is an experience about motivating like they got high energy. Wow! I love this farming team. They're whippersnappers. They'll go out there, make 100 calls a day awesome, whatever like. But they're in an experience. But it's okay. They got high energy. I'm sure you guys can think of maybe you fit in the description like you don't have as much experience when you have, like a lot of energy to go after.
Mert Iseri: There are examples of similar products in parallel markets like, Oh, we have this, like AI receptionist for barbershops working really? Well, what if we created that were dental offices? Oh, like has a little parallel application of a similar technology? Okay, that, like, I believe that this is a potential to be a massive tab like, Wow, amazing like, there's so many people in the world that could be using the so many companies that have this problem. So many rare travel experiences like, Wow, there's there's so much we can do here, awesome.
Mert Iseri: And there's a list of target customers. We haven't contacted those customers, but we at least have a list of like, Hey, these are people targeted strangers
Mert Iseri: that hey fit into this category. There's this many customers. There's this many wedding agencies that run ads on Facebook like, Look, they're there.
Mert Iseri: Early indication of this giant tab.
Mert Iseri: This to me, looks like a lot of scaffolding
Mert Iseri: like it's good like. It's better if you have these things versus not like. It's better if you have a lot of energy.
Mert Iseri: but it's not that great, I mean, like, so what if you have energy? I mean, like a lot of people have a high energy like?
Mert Iseri: So what do you Google? Some titles and Linkedin and figured out like about, there's this many director of Data science in Company series being above like, okay, like, I could do that, too. Like again, it's like it's good.
Mert Iseri: It's anecdotal. But it's not concrete. Here's what concrete looks like at this stage
Mert Iseri: team has started the founding team has started an exit. Multiple companies. This is what I mean by all else being equal like this isn't something you just go and get. But imagine we're going after. Imagine I'm building a company that's building the A identical assistant company.
Mert Iseri: and we have the aerial assistant company today
Mert Iseri: like we're going head to head.
Mert Iseri: You're in a mess. You're talking to both these companies at the same time. They're pitching it exactly the same idea. We have the back of the napkin envelope like sounds gonna work. We haven't done shit one team has like 5 X's under their dollars.
Mert Iseri: They've already returned multiple multiple multiple returns on their investors in the past. And another one is like, Hey, we got a lot of high energy. I don't know about you guys. I'm back in the team that has a lot of.
Mert Iseri: I'm not in the team that has worked together for the past 20 years like
Mert Iseri: the direction here really matters. If you are someone who spent decades in the hiring space and know the ins and outs. It's a lot more credible for you to say I'm gonna speed up the process. I know how to do it. I'm gonna build a tool that I wish I had myself like this is super super statistical, awesome, like there's a pattern here. I can. I can invest in that.
Mert Iseri: There is a works like prototype like we built a shitty prototype of version. This is what Max said yesterday, which I love, but you have a shitty prototype and the shitty prototype. Yes, people don't. Oh, my God! Like this piece of shit thing already has people begging to keep using it. Wow, okay, that's pretty. That's pretty significant. Actually, that's statistical like, we can measure that.
Mert Iseri: There's an existing multi-billion dollar annual spend category. This was one of the problems with Swipe, says, Swipe says, reduce hospital acquired infections. It's a very serious problem. People literally die in hospitals because of this. But you know what hospitals don't do.
Mert Iseri: They have another line item on their budget every year that says hospital acquired infection cost.
Mert Iseri: It is not a thing
Mert Iseri: that to the hospital's balance sheet, cost them money.
Mert Iseri: You have to sit down and like go back and forth through claims, data with a hospital Cfo for weeks to convince them this has cost them money
Mert Iseri: to them. It's invisible, like, for example, the way this cost shows up for a hospital is
Mert Iseri: you get there to get your spleen removed. You get an infection, you say, for an extra day, and the hospital doesn't get reversed for that extra day. This. This is the How hospital waste money on Hospital Regard infections, but like
Mert Iseri: really, I mean really categorizing them. About this person stayed an extra 25. So therefore our margin was a little lower for this one, because, like an extra day room or board sound like, they got everything labor for that extra day, they stay for another room. But like this is just really complicated. Whereas if you have a product where you can go, someone like, Hey, every year people spent 17 billion dollars on Crs, like they already do this.
Mert Iseri: It's an existing category. And our thing is 10 x better than this. Like people already hire dozens of people to do anti monet launder like, there's an existing category of a shit ton of effort in the space. And we're just gonna basically come in and make it super easier.
Mert Iseri: and Tim has direct access to a way for some customers who have prepaid for access like this is what I what I was sharing earlier. Like.
Mert Iseri: I mean, yeah, looking at a list of these people potentially might buy this.
Mert Iseri: Or like, I've talked to these people.
Mert Iseri: They've already said, yes, they're buying it.
Mert Iseri: I cannot get it to them, and they're actually asking me if I can pay more to cut the line
Mert Iseri: like, I don't know about you guys pretty fucking good place to be
Mert Iseri: like if you have like. Let's take the Rsu stock tax money example.
Mert Iseri: If you guys did nothing like the prompt. Don't work that we don't have. We haven't figured out how to
Mert Iseri: pay for all these derivatives of complex financial products. But we've sat down. We've tracked down with cold emails figured out which Dog club the owners belong to hunting them down on their bike ride to Palo Alto, whatever it is. And we got 1,000 Facebook employees to say, Hey, existing, I'm in and I will pay you X for this. Use my credit card.
Mert Iseri: If you can achieve that somehow, somewhere.
Mert Iseri: you have a pretty fucking, concrete example that this is. This will definitely work like you. You have ultimate proof that what you're building is valuable, like people have voted with their dollars.
Mert Iseri: This, by the way, is another reason why I absolutely fucking abhor, abhor, if I like, could tattoo this on my chest. I would I fucking hate free pilots!
Mert Iseri: I hate, I hate it with the like the blood of my soul, like when people tell me that. Yeah, man like, we got a lot of customers. Yeah, yeah. Go back also there. How much are they paying? Well, they're free users.
Mert Iseri: There, we will wait.
Mert Iseri: They're free users. They're not customers.
Mert Iseri: Customer is someone who pays you.
Mert Iseri: These people are just. You're giving shit away with free for them, like, what's the difference that in Max's example yesterday, where you guys were like.
Mert Iseri: Hey, like I had this puzzle idea who I attended my trunk? Well, I don't really know.
Mert Iseri: lab.
Mert Iseri: that's not a customer.
Mert Iseri: The word customer is a sacrosanct term.
Mert Iseri: like they trusted you with their dollars.
Mert Iseri: And I invite you guys, you could have 10 people in here who have to pay me shit with all kinds of opinions, and one person here soon pay me their money. I'm listening to this guy.
Mert Iseri: whatever the fuck this guy wants. I'm going to build more of that, because God bless all 10 of you, or 100. If you're a thousand of you who gives up. Who gives up what these people say earlier?
Mert Iseri: And why is it a measure of progress?
Mert Iseri: It's not.
Mert Iseri: This is the person I'm after, and you know what I'd rather do less. I'd rather do better for that one person's opinion, because I know that person isn't giving me their money cause. They think I'm nice. That person is giving me money because they're in the pathway of that value creation. And I want to obsess over what this person thinks, not what this general public thinks about me, or some reporter, or my mom, or my grandma, whatever that is like. This is bias.
Mert Iseri: This is truth.
Mert Iseri: Money is truth.
Mert Iseri: they're telling you with their dollars that they like what you're doing. I suggest you listen to it.
Mert Iseri: And this is why I want to be obsessed over this like early demand validation. I only care about traction if those people either pay me, or promise to pay me by showing me significant interest, as in giving me that credit card information. Not just like one day. I'll pay you, I promise. No, no, no, like. Give me a credit card like that's real trust. You're not gonna just give it to anybody
Mert Iseri: before we go on. I wanna take a pause in here. Does this resonate with you guys like, do you guys see yourself whether you're in one bucket or the other? And I'm not trying to like shit on you guys, I very much am in this bucket in many, many ways as well. But do you see how these 2 things aren't equal from the eyes of an investor?
Mert Iseri: Their job is to say no. When I worked at Adventure Fund.
Mert Iseri: and I thought that I worked with Troy, actually, Troy. And, Mark, you got there there the address for this program legends. You guys are so lucky to have them.
Mert Iseri: You know. I was so excited I joined the fun, and I was like, Oh, boy, it's you know, great like, I love spending time with founders. This is really good. Founders are my people.
Mert Iseri: It's gonna be awesome. And it's also like post exit. So I was feeling like, you know, I've got money now. So yeah, like, cool.
Mert Iseri: And like, I was so excited in the start because I was like, this is great. It's gonna be like founder time.
Mert Iseri: And the real job, once you get into it, is you very quickly realize the job of an investor is basically to say no all day
Mert Iseri: like that is how you spend your hours. Because every year I think Troy showed these numbers. I don't know how accurate they are like 2,000 people. Come in the door you are taking, and you invest in 10.
Mert Iseri: What a fucking thing happens to the 9, 1, 1,990, you respectfully, yet kindly and directly. Tell them no.
Mert Iseri: And if you just proportionally like sort of like, spread out your time, you realize most of the time. You say no.
Mert Iseri: and their job is to look for reasons to say no. The Troy had to say I really resonated with me was like looking for the company. That sounds too good to be true, but it's actually true, like it has to be that good
Mert Iseri: a lot of times. We say no, it just on the basis of this. Well, I mean great good idea. Best of luck to you guys, but just not invested. It's not concrete yet.
Mert Iseri: Alright. So that's level one. We have to have a strong mission.
Mert Iseri: whatever.
Mert Iseri: It's basically the difference between order taking and order creating.
Mert Iseri: Like, if I'm having to create the line item for what I'm about to ask you to do versus saying hey? Instead of buying this by that like, if you every year by 20 shovels, and I'm coming to you and saying, I got a better shovel and boy, you know what it's gonna cost you at or low, but it's got this other thing
Mert Iseri: is a whole lot easier to divert that water. That little river to your side of the stream versus. Hey, we're gonna dug a trove of New River because you've never bought shovels before. And but, boy, I'm gonna convince you this a really good idea for you to do so.
Mert Iseri: This is the difference like this is the example of like, I'd rather go for people who are already spending millions of dollars every year in rail travel experiences versus go, for, like the people who go for cruises and try to convince them that the cruises are shit. And now they gotta do this other thing.
Mert Iseri: This is the entire difference. Like with swine sense. There really was no line item for reducing hats. We had to create this thing with hospitals.
Mert Iseri: My current company, Japello would build AI sales. Reps like it's sales, reps that work like a person. They're all powered by Chat Jbt. And they do these kind of like specific sales automations. That's why I'm like drawn to run there. Because, like, I can see, like, these things are really really useful in my case, they do very specific things in Japan like they just do things that help make more money. But look, it's very easy for me to go out to a a buyer. Say, look, you're already hiring 10 Sdrs.
Mert Iseri: Just hire 9, and I'll do that one. AI will do the job of the 9.
Mert Iseri: Doesn't sound that crazy.
Mert Iseri: I'm already like I'm already budgeted for. I'm already gonna spend that money with whether it works out or not. Why don't I take a side bet with you guys. Maybe the eye will do a better job than the human and boy it does like. It's such an amazing moment to show that to them and say, like, Look, this thing made more money than it cost
Mert Iseri: like. It's so much easier to do this as like if if you know, again, startups are like video games. I'm like a boss is like creating a new line item. And another video game boss is like, I'll just convince them that instead of Hey, this should do way easier to kill the second boss way way easier
Mert Iseri: any other thoughts. Go ahead, Richard, about the last point so we're trying to understand whether it makes more sense to
Mert Iseri: tell our customers give us your credit card. We'll give you the but wearable in 6 months or a year from now, this is our vision. This is what we're building versus.
Mert Iseri: This is a subset of teachers. We don't know whether you're going to pay us for it or not.
Mert Iseri: But this is what we have today. And it's a, it's a something that is, it's built with duct tape, basically. So what? What are your insight on that? Like? I mean, I say, they solve this. Some problems like, yeah, might be a good idea for you to give some stuff to people, get their feedback. Maybe iterate the product on that matter, whatever. But like, if we're talking about like ideally what I think you should be doing should do that
Mert Iseri: like the the wearable
Mert Iseri: AI, and not like they they did the 18 min presentation by minute 3. I bought it.
Mert Iseri: and they were like, we don't know when it's gonna come out. I was like, I don't care. Please take my money
Mert Iseri: like I think they sold 10 million dollars worth of it in like, as a result of video. And this company could just put that video on Linkedin. That's all they did like. It's like, Hey.
Mert Iseri: here's an awesome demo. I think it's sick, you guys should have. And so maybe the ingredient of that demo is like those kinds of activities, but then they'll be all. What am I trying to create? I'm trying to pay a campaign well, like people are just like throwing money at me, and if there was an option like Hey, Rabbit wearable is $200.
Mert Iseri: But if you pay us $500 you get it next week, I am smashing that $500. But I like them.
Mert Iseri: Adam, whether you're on buying
Mert Iseri: like I have this dream, that apple is gonna come out with a phone a a year from now, or whatever that is like native like, instead of piece of shit, Siri, it's got like a chat Gbt for level like AI in it. And it's gonna like bite plans if it's for me and shit like it's basically what I thought, sir, was gonna be when it came out like, you know, Steve Jobs called like, Hey, like I'm on a coffee whatever. And like Siri did that
Mert Iseri: if Apple came out with this phone
Mert Iseri: I will literally blind. But I literally just did credit card right here. I don't care how much it costs. Oh, it's 10 grand! I don't care. I'm buying it.
Mert Iseri: This is the level of value that I'm trying to basically get you. So
Mert Iseri: yeah, you guys are testing that stuff is important. Like, you gotta create a subset. Give it to people see their interactions whatever. But some people confuse that activity as like, wow! This thing's gonna sell like a motherfucker. No, it's not.
Mert Iseri: All you've proven is that one, whatever the interaction, that's all you've done, and the the fall pod that I see a lot of founders walk into is like, well, our free users spend this much time on this like one thing, whatever and like they, it feels like this is really awesome like, but it's to an investor side. It's not that awesome.
Mert Iseri: Go ahead. How do you work through with your product? Is not the the value that we bring? Maybe years in advance. Imagine, like a mortgage, right? It's 30 years later that you're gonna see your return. You sell something that has such a long duration.
Mert Iseri: I mean, this is a very product like specific question, like, I go to the gym. So I don't die when I'm 65, like there's many, many versions of this, I think you just get proof. And we're gonna get to what that looks like later on. Go ahead.
Mert Iseri: Skied in
Mert Iseri: bias computers rather than very first hand.
Mert Iseri: how do you manage the project?
Mert Iseri: That's one of the people who?
Mert Iseri: Yeah, exactly
Mert Iseri: part of that. Oh, is trust.
Mert Iseri: Yeah, I rank them. I basically ran me for Geneto for my or the customer reached out to my friends also, like I reached out people that I know like, Hey, I'm billing this thing I think can help you with your company. I did like these looms for them. I'm gonna share with them, you guys. Later today.
Mert Iseri: the less I knew somebody, and they still agree to pay me that that is a strong indicator, that whatever I told them is on the source of the truth.
Mert Iseri: because there's more bias than people that like me more.
Mert Iseri: Now, the thing that really helps in Smr is that people that are closer to you have a high degree of trust in you like they trust that you're gonna do what you're gonna do. And that really sort of lubricates the pathway of, can I have your credit card information like, you know, I'm not gonna fuck you over, and if this thing doesn't work out I'll give you your money back. So it's strange with this pretty hard proposition stuff. But there's someone who's like work with you for the past 10 years. Yeah, like, you know, you're not gonna fuck them over like
Mert Iseri: if Neil will sign up a company and say, like, Hey, dude like things gonna do wonderful things for you. I need $20,000. I'd be like, Yeah, here you go. That's the fly, and I know, like whatever reason didn't work out whatever. And he had to spend money to give me. The money back like that is an implicit thing that is not necessarily signed off by any agreements like. I don't need to sign agreements with Neil. I've known him for over 10 years. I know we cool. This is basically the delta of, like the people who are closer to you.
Mert Iseri: Anything else.
Mert Iseri: Madison, what would you do?
Mert Iseri: Do you mean the same thing? Because sometimes B 2 B is yeah. B, 2. B is kind of like what Max was saying about like the Walmart, like there is a do in Walmart, or there's a lady in Walnut. There's a person in there that we're doing business with, like
Mert Iseri: B 2 B is really B to a person in the other B, like, there's a person that we're doing business with.
Mert Iseri: So I always like to think of like. We have to reduce the B 2 B customers into the actual person that I'm getting promoted. As a result of my work, like, I have to find that person. Who am I making the hero as a result of my hard earned work that I'm putting it into this thing like when we're done a year from now. How are you getting promoted?
Mert Iseri: And that to me is what good media sales look like. Alright, let's jump up forward. It's a product.
Mert Iseri: So now we've got this thing where we've said, Hey, this is going to work this sauce. This will work.
Mert Iseri: The next thing. The next seconds we should form
Mert Iseri: is this works
Mert Iseri: like it's, it's a natural progression. We made some commitments.
Mert Iseri: I think this is gonna work awesome. Let's show people that this works. Okay, how do we do that? Well, there's scaffolding. And there's concrete.
Mert Iseri: Scaffolding is product works. Yeah. But it works for limited capacity
Mert Iseri: like it works with slack. But it gets the big warning label, you know, and just says, Hey, this is unauthorized out and can't really like like it works, but works in a limited capacity like it works with this core. But it doesn't work as a chat bot on the website. It's got limit. It's got limitations.
Mert Iseri: I mean, it does what the label says like it does these automations. But it's got limitations in it.
Mert Iseri: Product works with a ton of human effort like we do send you to an amazing travel experience. But we gotta do all the fucking bookings in the back end by hand, like, okay. But I mean, it works.
Mert Iseri: But it works in like this, human effort, way or product needs to keep going like we have this promise that we're gonna do anti money laundering. No, your customer stuff for our future. And it's all gonna be done by AI, or right now, we're gonna fucking. Go line by line on that shit like it really sucks like
Mert Iseri: it works. But it needs like this kind of like hand holding, if you will, scaffolding, it's great. It's anecdotal. Obviously, you should do these things first like
Mert Iseri: it should do what it says it does.
Mert Iseri: But ideally, your product works across all edge cases, like in my case with Japan like, and I still integrate with the Crm, so like when the AI actually sends an email, you see it in the Crm like from like the Sdr actually send an email, or like like Sam, sent a text message to the customer. It works.
Mert Iseri: and it works across all major Crms.
Mert Iseri: But it works with salesforce. It works with pipe drive. It works with. You have got your own. Crm. We'll work with that like. Whatever database you have, we will have our AI interact with that across all edge cases. It's reliable. It's optimized for cost and speed. This shit is awesome.
Mert Iseri: Product works automatically
Mert Iseri: plug and play. Oh, like you want to see, integrate. No problem. Click. This button is done like, imagine going for like Plug Bear.
Mert Iseri: All you gotta do is like, click here.
Mert Iseri: window pops up log into Openai. I just hit. Yes.
Mert Iseri: everything else is taken care of. I don't have to go click, copy Api key paste in this like one obscure area. I don't know what the fuck is. An Api. Am I breaking something? I don't know. I'm worried like, no, I just want to like log in
Mert Iseri: done, it works. Wow! This is magical. How did this happen? This is incredible.
Mert Iseri: Product works with little to no buzzer without manual support.
Mert Iseri: Now, concrete here is basically reliability.
Mert Iseri: Like I've been in this place in my first company with swipe sense, where, like it works, we track hand hygiene compliance across healthcare workers. But it didn't exactly work. If your walls were made out of like concrete or glass, or if it was like dry wall, it really didn't fucking work, because, like. I thought you were in the next room, so we had to go to the hospital and explain. Well, actually, like your hand. Hygiene compliance is a little higher than that we're like, oh, we gotta like reinstall this shit. Oh, it's hardware
Mert Iseri: bane of my fucking existence like now I gotta go fly to the hospital unplug. Something plug the next thing in there like it's just fucking sauce. It was horrible.
Mert Iseri: but it worked. It increased hand hygiene compliance. But, boy, I was paying it just sucked ass to deal with all of that.
Mert Iseri: whereas with Japan right now.
Mert Iseri: look, I'm in. I integrated with your Crm boom, it's done. I start texting your people the the way, by the way, the our flash, your product at Jeeto is an inbound lead. Respond. So in website, with a contact. Us form typically like leads, will fill out that form, and a sales rep. A human sales rep will contact you and say, like, hey? So they were interested around products. Tell me, well, how can I help you like such a conversation is these are inbound funnels. Some of you might have these funds. This is basically where our customers are coming to you.
Mert Iseri: A ground truth in these funnels is, the longer it takes for you to get back to this person, the less likely they are to buy like, imagine this as you like. You went to a website, sign something up. And instantly someone got back to you, hey? So you feel like I'm super excited to work with you. What led you to reach out to us and stop the conversation?
Mert Iseri: You're way more likely to work with that company versus one that takes their sweet out fucking time to get back to you.
Mert Iseri: This is what we provide. An AI powered sales rep. We'll get back to you right away. Have a human-like conversation with you 99.9% of the time the prospects that are talking to our I don't know they're talking to. And I am.
Mert Iseri: It sounds like unlimited basically, people say, Hey, is this a human? It comes on like a basis as no, I mean, I'm I'm a digital assistant.
Mert Iseri: It's honest with it. But it just works
Mert Iseri: like within the first day we can show you, hey? Yesterday 50 people fill out this form. And in your Crm 17 opportunities were created from those 50 phone bills. Literally, the next day 50 phone bills.
Mert Iseri: 30 opportunities created. It's like money appeared out of nowhere simply because we're able to get back to people faster. It is fucking incredible. It is so good. And it just works like people are like, how does this just work? And we're like, you know, click into the Crm, we can see the conversations it works. We're like, like can't be. Go ahead.
Mert Iseri: it just works.
Mert Iseri: It's such a position of power to be in that place. Go ahead.
Mert Iseri: Just so. You put something in chicken. And then you
Mert Iseri: initially, like, we built this thing where it created drafts of emails. So I would have to log in and edit the emails if they weren't good. So prompt writing wasn't as good. We didn't understand rat databases. We couldn't understand like implement past examples. So these things actually use like trained on past data. Yeah, early on, we did this thing with like manual effort, or even it was basic shit, like, we have to learn how to send text messages, but it's
Mert Iseri: pretty straightforward, but it's not that straightforward to connect chat to Bt to SMS like I I text the number. And then AI text back, there's all kinds of like regulations or laws. I'm like who you can text what kind of concept you need to in order to lawfully text people. There's this thing called 10 Dlc registration. We can probably know about all of that.
Mert Iseri: but we figured it out. And now we have a process like, now, I press a button 10 min against it. I understand it. So yeah, right.
Mert Iseri: all of this starts with scaffolding like, unless you build 10 companies in same space. You're not gonna just jump to concrete. You start with scaffolding. But then you round that around with concrete. This is the thing that we didn't do with swipe like
Mert Iseri: that's fucking Year 6. We're still flying out the hospitals, manually replacing devices. If there was an issue versus figuring out how to do over the air updates, or like fixed boxes or pig, but like fixed bugs over the air, like no brainer shit to do at that stage with millions of sales like we should figure out how to do that. And we just had. It was like we would still do the the Band-aid version.
Mert Iseri: But what I want, you guys, is don't get stuck in this place, and God forbid we're going to go into the next stages.
Mert Iseri: God forbid! Don't over mess in the following stages, unless you have reliability here, like, if your thing does what it says it does, it should do it reliably before you build infrastructure run somewhere. Because, unfortunately, what ends up happening is, it's a very logical conclusion.
Mert Iseri: You build a sales team that produces more customers with the shit kind of errors. Well, we're gonna deal with all that shit now, like the little chatter that is like, Hey, this wasn't that great an experience in our travel experience. We lost our walls. Now we have 100 customers complaining about losing their wallets. This is the same problem.
Mert Iseri: Any other thoughts. Go ahead. Yeah, I'm surprised. We're still at the product market level.
Mert Iseri: This is more advanced, and I would think, in terms of funding. Maybe this is series a as opposed to precial seed.
Mert Iseri: But
Mert Iseri: what's your perspective? I mean, there's gradients of this guys like, obviously, I don't want you guys sort of like, imagine this as sort of like the nuclear option, like, we're not building the Facebook back end here as it is right now, what I'm trying to share here is this, all those early customers?
Mert Iseri: Is it a vision, a half to like? Get them what they need? Or is there some means of giving them what they want in a reliable manner. And again, maybe this is where we stop, and this is where we raise our seat route like. But I wanna say to an investor like, Hey, investor, I'm not gonna go around and build a sales team here. I have customers who are deliriously happy with what I'm doing takes a lot of human effort. Right now, I wanna invest 500 K to go from here to here for these set of customers. It's more of a narrative tool.
Mert Iseri: What ends up happening mostly is. Unfortunately, people just jump to the next step, as I thought, like the thing works kind of support up. Let's create not a bunch of customer services infrastructure around it. This is basically what I'm trying to like. Warn against it here. Now.
Mert Iseri: if you imagine already you can see concrete on level one like this will work. We have a shit ton of black people on the wait list. Like everyone is excited around this. We know what the fuck we're doing in here. It's a whole lot easier to take an idea at that concrete level on level one and actually
Mert Iseri: take the bed to an invest concrete on the second floor like, Hey, we have a lot of moving demand in here. Let's go ahead and invest a little bit more on leverage. I can make that happen.
Mert Iseri: whereas if you have a barely proven vision and you're trying to let engineering costs optimize it over time. That's a silly effort, like the thing crumbles
Mert Iseri: concrete on the previous floor makes an explore easier. Now, customer success to me is defined by this. This works well. This will work.
Mert Iseri: This works.
Mert Iseri: this works well.
Mert Iseri: I love it.
Mert Iseri: This is really awesome.
Mert Iseri: In our case in Canada we call this revenue plus.
Mert Iseri: This means that there's a magical moment. And we fucking email, the shit out of our customers when that moment happens is because we're integrating to their Crm. We know that the leads that I talk to, that is, and the number of opportunities that it leads to, and the amount of closes we get as a result of those opportunities.
Mert Iseri: and there ends up being a day. And, by the way, we're not cheap, we charge like 40 grand a year for our solution.
Mert Iseri: There's a magical moments where I get to write an email to the person that took the bet. And this happens within 90 days with all of our customers.
Mert Iseri: I write a magical email to the customer and say, like, Hey, this will let you know we just crossed the amount
Mert Iseri: that make more money in revenue than what you've paid for us for the whole fucking year. We're in the green for the rest of the year.
Mert Iseri: The third thing that I get always in response is great. Can I pay you more like? Can you do more for me?
Mert Iseri: This is awesome. We're already in the house money.
Mert Iseri: I don't know about you guys, but it's a whole lot more fun to play poker when you're in the green
Mert Iseri: like, and you can't even climb out of a hole that shit sucks
Mert Iseri: like if I bought it for $100, and I got $500 in front of me. I'm gonna fucking Yolo the 400. I'm gonna have a lot more fun with it.
Mert Iseri: This, to me, is what this works well, really looks like, whereas, compared not to swipe size
Mert Iseri: swipes, reduce hospital chronic infections, and, boy, we did it. We increased anxiety. Reduce infections. But wait a minute.
Mert Iseri: It's not so clear because we're trying to prove something that didn't happen
Mert Iseri: like maybe this year had a like a light flu season
Mert Iseri: like maybe this year people saw an Oprah that they should wash their hands more like
Mert Iseri: proving something that didn't happen is infinitely harder than me, showing like. Look, you used to get 17 off tues a day. Now you get 24 a day. You're welcome. Who wants to turn it off? No, no, no, please don't turn it off. We can't go back to where we are like.
Mert Iseri: This is the level up like this works while I want you guys to get to. So let's break this down.
Mert Iseri: This works well to me at the scaffolding level looks like this is anecdotal evidence. These aren't bad things.
Mert Iseri: Customers are happy, ish?
Mert Iseri: I didn't have. But like, does that happen?
Mert Iseri: We're happy. Ish
Mert Iseri: customers are very price sensitive. This is like my like. Look like the candidate. The gold mine
Mert Iseri: are people like negotiating the shit out of these things with you guys?
Mert Iseri: Do you negotiate an iphone
Mert Iseri: like
Mert Iseri: if people are really price sensitive, that tells you something that these people aren't that happy?
Mert Iseri: But if they were super happy, they were negotiated, because, like you should, that every business person does negotiate. But you don't negotiate until the couch come home like they're not that price. Sensitive
Mert Iseri: customers are leaving for competitors at a higher rate, and gas even worse customers are turning back to doing nothing.
Mert Iseri: This is a giant, enormous red flash. But we've done all this work to get these customers. They're going back. And they're saying like, Hey we'll just use the know your customer team, the the human team. Instead of this AI solution, or like, Yeah, we could grab legal documents the the lex lexicon.
Mert Iseri: Oh, yeah, we should use our lawyer to say, I think it's just like it's not working out that great like
Mert Iseri: red fucking, alert. If they're going back to doing nothing. And again, not all of them might be like this. But if some are doing this, this fucking ring alarm bells for you guys, maybe let's go back to the previous floor and start building concrete there like before we start focusing on this stuff. Customers don't care as much of the practice taken away from them.
Mert Iseri: There's a very like like
Mert Iseri: moments in history instars and startups. Facebook introduced like the news feed so like when you logged in
Mert Iseri: it. Wasn't that your profile that you just saw you saw this like wall, like the speed of stuff
Mert Iseri: dude people
Mert Iseri: needed outside of Facebook offices.
Mert Iseri: They were like, Don't take away
Mert Iseri: the beautiful profile
Mert Iseri: I have worked so hard
Mert Iseri: in creating. I had my everything in here like what the fuck are doing changing this thing like.
Mert Iseri: I don't know about you guys
Mert Iseri: like, if your customers don't care as much when you make a major upgrade when they're either telling you guys like, Hey, like don't change this thing. It's really, really useful. I'm just checking with you like, are you taking that thing away? Whatever that is like? That's a pretty important single
Mert Iseri: like. If you take the product away from these. This is like the true emphasis of like, how well you build something. Take it away from your customers.
Mert Iseri: like, I know, like web. Video, right is one of the the companies in here. You guys are free users. Congratulations.
Mert Iseri: Let's say we have a thousand users.
Mert Iseri: Wouldn't it be wonderful to find out, to isolate a hundred of them saying, like, Hey, guys, that today's your last day. Sorry you don't get to use this anymore.
Mert Iseri: Don't you want to know what happens
Mert Iseri: like those people go okay.
Mert Iseri: Oh, Ron.
Mert Iseri: or did they go? What the fuck are you doing like? I use this in my design. I got a presentation coming up with my CEO on open Dennis. And like.
Mert Iseri: what percentage of those people say, that is it 10% of those people, 50% of those people.
Mert Iseri: If it's 90% of those people, maybe that's a pretty good moment. Say, by the way, you can keep using it to pay a dollar a week, whatever that is. But like taking away a product from a customer is a really good witness to see what you built is actually valid. Go ahead. No problem for all of you guys then likely has an important thing to do is if don't ask person running an important company should step out if he wants to, and so can you. By the way, go ahead. I have a question regarding like
Mert Iseri: again, B to C versus B to BI feel like B to B, it's really.
Mert Iseri: if you're integrating software as a service or whatever might be, and it's integral to the business, but on the B to C side, like, let's just say your favorite brand shuts down. And so you don't get that anymore. I think, like just curious. What are your thoughts on like?
Mert Iseri: Because I always hear customers like on the direct consumer side is like they are very licensed.
Mert Iseri: which is how they are.
Mert Iseri: And so it's like, okay, I think so.
Mert Iseri: Rolex discontinues the watch. What happens?
Mert Iseri: Prices will go.
Mert Iseri: The shitty used version ends up selling twice retail.
Mert Iseri: What are they doing?
Mert Iseri: But I think that that also goes back to like for the non-five sensitive customers those are like, it's luxury.
Mert Iseri: So you think about like
Mert Iseri: not the morphine pain, but the robust reason
Mert Iseri: of buying something
Mert Iseri: that you don't need.
Mert Iseri: There's 2 things in here that I want to like. Double click on first is
Mert Iseri: being price sensitive. Yet people who are rich are less price sensitive.
Mert Iseri: That's a pretty good thing to do as you're in your company early on is, pick the rich versions of your customers as to be your first customer.
Mert Iseri: like, solve rich people problems. If you're as your first problem.
Mert Iseri: if you're designing a dream travel. I'd rather design it for Jeff Bezos, because I know that I can double my price. And Jeff Bezos probably isn't gonna blink. This is a good early customer to have. Now the problem is, there's not that many, Jeff Bezos, but obviously this is an issue.
Mert Iseri: But early on, when I'm figuring shit out. I like for a little bit. That's the strategy. Build a sports card that only a few people can follow and then build this it on that less people can buy, but, like more people can buy, but still less, and then build the model. 3 that anybody can buy. But the order is in that manner like, let's go after rich people.
Mert Iseri: There's nothing wrong with this, I think. Then, this is sort of like this, like
Mert Iseri: sparks, and like we are solution for the people. It's gotta be a buttonality like it can be that in the end. But early on there's nothing wrong with people being super rich early on, because the results you deliver for them shows for it
Mert Iseri: what I mean by this full price. Sensitivity thing is, imagine in the scenario of Japan, where I've now worked for a customer like I have this one customer that's working really. Well, it's called Speaker Lab.
Mert Iseri: They teach a $16,000 course, on how to make more money from your speaking gates. So if you're a speaker and you like going in the Speaking circuit, you charge for your speakers. They teach you how to like, turn it into a business like how to get a sales team to get you more bookings, how to charge more. I've narrowed down your focus. It's an information product, high ticket information
Mert Iseri: we have paid for ourselves in the first 45 days.
Mert Iseri: and it's working so well that now their annual sales forecast that the head of sales signed their name, and blood isn't like, Hey, like, if I don't hit this number you can fire. Me number is tied to Japan.
Mert Iseri: Now I'm not gonna do this.
Mert Iseri: but if I were to call up Chris and say, Hey, Chris, circumstances have changed.
Mert Iseri: I will shut down the thing tomorrow unless you pay me an extra 50%.
Mert Iseri: I know he's not going to be happy with this.
Mert Iseri: but even for sure if I can pay
Mert Iseri: pitching and switching is what Bob master says like, I'm not saying, Go out there and do this, but if you increase your price, and people are staying. You're doing some right.
Mert Iseri: This is the entire point of this type of exercise in here. It's the only honest way for you to know if what you're doing is truly moving the needle for the other person like they can say, Hey, I love you guys. It's great to work with you, but if you raise your price and everybody quits, and maybe they don't like you as much, or maybe they're not getting, they're not and not acknowledging there's stuff in order delivering for that like. I religiously send this email every month this month. We close this many people like this month. We make this much money for you.
Mert Iseri: and the more I do that the better I am, because I know I'm not being switched for the competitor, and I know that when I raise my price they're gonna be okay with it. I mean, they're not gonna be like Super happy with it, because no one likes to pay more for the same show because they're gonna go back and say, Hey, budget committee, this thing that made us like $400,000 last year. It's not. Instead of costing $40,000 now costing $2,000, are we gonna do it? Of course we're gonna let me do it. And that's
Mert Iseri: that's the spirit of the sphere.
Mert Iseri: Any other questions before we move on to concrete here, go ahead. No worries there. We'll get that to you tomorrow.
Mert Iseri: And this is what concrete looks like on happy customers next door. I have one more thing about this. Have you found that there's different?
Mert Iseri: Not just in what terms are willing to think customers meaning you like, take up your time. They complain more. They create problems in your company. Yeah, yeah, yeah. This is another quality of rich customers
Mert Iseri: is like they don't get you about paying you, or like, I guess, invoices, or like when they tell you, hey, I want you to sort of thing. They pay you for it also.
Mert Iseri: Not every customer is created equal. We're gonna get to this. And actually, the the second part of our conversation today when we talk about spending, but I don't believe the dollar in your bank account is created equal, and some customers dollar that you receive the dollar from is worth more especially this person's driving customer profile, like what they tell you. The Icp dollar is worth more than the Rando dollar, you know.
Mert Iseri: I really believe that you have to have the guts to make the hardball of firing. Some customers
Mert Iseri: like some customers will abuse you and start using you as like their external engineering department, or what I can do this for me can't do this for me. Can you do this for me like. It's very convenient, because
Mert Iseri: if you're in a place of desperation as a startup, one other non scalable thing, please, please, please, please. At some point you're gonna fire. And again, that is different for every customer. I certainly believe in this, like, I want to get to the customer that acknowledges the value that I deliver for them, and then they're happy to start not pitching all the time, but shit that I have to do for it.
Mert Iseri: Alright, concrete looks like this customers are deliriously happy.
Mert Iseri: and when I mean that if customers don't price, don't don't care if the price doubles like. Imagine what would this mean for your business like you doubled whatever you charge it, you doubled it.
Mert Iseri: and your customers are still around. How good does your product have to be?
Mert Iseri: And you think this doesn't happen? Netflix doubled their prices in the past 6 years. You already know it.
Mert Iseri: You pay double for Netflix. Now, do you care? Are you really not gonna use Netflix Amazon prime next year, let's say, is $200. Are you really not gonna use it? Are you really gonna be like, you know what. Finally, I've had a Jeff bezos. I'm not having it. No, you're gonna happily pay for it. Iphones. You pay for it like, I know these things. That's very easy to sort of like categorize. Well, those are luxury goods. No dude
Mert Iseri: Amazon prime is not a luxury good. It's a thing that is a no brainer for you. And that's what I want. You guys sort of like, imagine your product to be what happens if I double my price, and how would I justify it?
Mert Iseri: Customers are leaving competitors to come to you? Wow!
Mert Iseri: This is incredible. This is like as good as a guess in terms of how well your shit works. We're trying to do this with this other company. We came to you because it didn't work.
Mert Iseri: Oh, my God, incredible! There's little to no turn in the customer base and customers riot if the product goes away like, I want to be such a core part of my customers. Business whether it's a B Twob customer or whether it's person. See you later, Max.
Mert Iseri: I want it to be such a core part of their experience, like, if it's a travel experience, I want it to be like the annual Dad son trip that we take every year. It becomes like the core of my childhood memories with my dying father. Whatever like. Don't take that away from me. You cannot take that away from me like I want it to be that level of integration into my life, and why it matters to me so much. It's a part of who I am using your service.
Mert Iseri: and if you take this away, I will knock down both. I will find you. I will like, grab you from your test and like shake you. It's like, no, no, give me back. The thing that I want like
Mert Iseri: this is the kind of level of value that we're trying to get to.
Mert Iseri: Now, as you guys can imagine. If your product fucking breaks all the time, it's really hard to do this
Mert Iseri: like, if you're trying to ignore your customer thing, and there's always errors in the data. It's really hard to convince that person to be happy. They're bitching all the time. That's just breaking all the time like you promise that, hey? Our client is, gonna be faster, but it's always slower or like it's faster on the higher side. But I gotta do this all this other shit on the side because it breaks all the time, or this is whatever like it sucks.
Mert Iseri: It's really hard to make that customer happy. This is what I mean by like reliability like. Yes, there's a limit to what you can imagine how reliable your product is. But if your customers are constantly fixing shit as a result of your product. They're not going to be happy, does not fucking matter the value that you drive for them.
Mert Iseri: And I learned this the lesson the hard way. It's 5 sounds like we would. We had a whole department of like hardware maintenance of hospitals. So it's like every day like it's almost like we traded the hospitals, job from like telling people to wash your hands to maintaining the thing that tells people to wash their hands. But their reason is, their effort was exactly the same, and we lost customers like like people were threatened to go away like people will be like we had. We're gonna go back to measuring people with pen and paper. Does this make sense like, do you guys see how
Mert Iseri: both of these are indicators of like, okay, like, we have customers like things are happening. People are using this, but one is way better than the other.
Mert Iseri: Now, the last level we're going to talk about
Mert Iseri: is what happens when you have a bunch of happy customers.
Mert Iseri: boy, when you have a lot of happy customers, they get you more customers.
Mert Iseri: That is the thing that we're trying to get to. And if you order a message to sales before this happens, you are in some deep shit, because sales teams that don't sell end up being a really really costly proposition. And, by the way, replace sales team with digital aspect like you can spend, add dollars to only get more of the problems that we just talked about.
Mert Iseri: Predictable sales means this to me. This works so well, I won't want to.
Mert Iseri: Wow. I have figured out a way to show you the proof that it might be realized 50 years from now, whatever that is, Morgantry to prove it, or whatever but like
Mert Iseri: I know it works well. I have proof around this that I want one for myself.
Mert Iseri: Now, sales just like the previous floors, also have scaffolding and concrete.
Mert Iseri: You can have sales.
Mert Iseri: but they're unpredictable.
Mert Iseri: but we kind of don't know where the next customer is going to come from. We have to come up with a new way to get the next customer, like we have to like trial this week. We're trying this other strategy to get the customer, I mean still sales.
Mert Iseri: but it's not that great of sales. There's a power law distribution of performance among sales team members like, maybe we have a team of 10 sellers and like 2 are carrying the team.
Mert Iseri: We got sales.
Mert Iseri: but like, why the fuck do we have the apec like there's power law like
Mert Iseri: we have a small set of outliers in our performance that are getting us these sales. It's good, but it's not great.
Mert Iseri: Founder is still leading sales. I take really strong issue with this, and again, I love sales. I if I have one job in any kind of company, I would do sales like I think it's really fun, art and science all of it together.
Mert Iseri: But your job as the founder, is still to sell. That means we have not sort of practice enough of getting to predictability like you should choose to be involved in sales not need to be involved in sales, and there's exceptions to every rule. Like talent. Your CEO is still in the room with Joe Biden, because talent to sell billing dollar contracts to the Us. Government like that's an exception.
Mert Iseri: but I can assure you, like the CEO of Google. Don't give a shit about what their sales look like, because there's a whole department. There's leadership in place. Things are pretty cool. It's a mathematical spreadsheet. Troy will get a kick out of this question. So I think there's a possibility of what you just said might be a misinterpretation of sequencing events.
Mert Iseri: Hmm, because if I hear that right now and I go. Oh, okay, I shouldn't be
Mert Iseri: so should definitely be doing this all the fucking time right now. You guys are not on level 4,
Mert Iseri: and if you haven't be fucking, hear me fucking to say this right now. You're delusional.
Mert Iseri: Of course you should be selling again. None of you are regular sales. And what the fuck are you talking about? I mean, how many of you guys have a product that works well like. Just let's, let's, you know, put our hands. Be honest like. No, we're not there yet.
Mert Iseri: What I'm saying is, if your sales are dependent on the founder being in the room. There's a level of maturity that is yet to be attained. That is what I'm trying to tell you guys.
Mert Iseri: And again, I love sales. I don't be sales until the costume, Paul.
Mert Iseri: but there is approaching a moment for my company, Jako, where I won't have to be in the room, and still sales keep coming.
Mert Iseri: Market extent is going towards brand awareness.
Mert Iseri: Like if I had like a roundhouse kick option
Mert Iseri: in startups that they said, you know what we're really like, brand like
Mert Iseri: improving our brand? What the fuck are you, coca cola
Mert Iseri: like? Ibm.
Mert Iseri: what are you talking about your brand. What, brand? You don't have a brand. You don't have a.com of your brand. What are you talking about
Mert Iseri: like? I hear this so many times. We're going through this trade show because we're trying to raise brand awareness
Mert Iseri: on this thing that we're trying to do? You fuck your brand? Who cares? Who cares like? Nobody cares
Mert Iseri: most revenues concentrated from a small couple of customers.
Mert Iseri: just like how it's not that great to have
Mert Iseri: one seller carrying the whole team. If you have one customer carrying the whole business, it's also equally bad. What if that customer changes their mind?
Mert Iseri: What if they suddenly go in another direction again. It's not bad like I've had a whale customer like for Swiss House. I've had a whale customer for Jeffrey. I have a will customer. It's really fucking helpful. But if that's all we're doing that it is not a repeatable sales situation. That means we should not lucky with this one person, and bless your soul, it's awesome. Keep doing it. Keep writing that. But that is not what end all the all sales looks like.
Mert Iseri: Here's what concrete looks like
Mert Iseri: sales. Forecast is basically a mathematical function.
Mert Iseri: It is a thing that has levers where you can say to yourself, if I do this, then this happens, and if I do more of that, that math don't break. That is what we mean by predictability here, like sales are going to the right. But they're going to the right as a result of a very known set of efforts, like, if we're selling our vegetables at a farmers market, and from every farmers market. We make $100. Guess what? If we show up to 2 farmers markets, we should make something like $200,
Mert Iseri: and if we're showing up to 10 farmers markets, and we're still making 100 fucking dollars. That is not a level, Nixon. Why is that bad? Why is it not ideal to just have a small subset of whales, and maybe just one more time. What is a whale? Because I had to explain to a couple of
Mert Iseri: go after a huge partnership that would take their whole. And why? That might not be the best idea at this point.
Mert Iseri: There's a couple of risks in here. And again I want to repurpose this. There's
Mert Iseri: very good reasons why you should have whales like I don't wanna just like shit on having customers that pay you a whole lot of money. This is like the definition of like rich customers like Jeff Bezos is doing travel, planning, using like we're gonna work with you guys to regenerative like like travel plan. It's fucking awesome, Jeff, using it. We can't just build the business just to repeat Jeff Bezos like that is not our open customer base.
Mert Iseri: We should use Jeff Bezos to fund our mistakes, to figure out how to do things that are very at my level, to learn the ropes of a thing like here's how we use it. For example, we had this one customer.
Mert Iseri: Paul Gordon.
Mert Iseri: By the way, like
Mert Iseri: like I've come to know a lot of businesses through my work in venture through like the business that I've helped start. I've never seen anything like this. This view sells also an online course similar to the speaker lab. They sell you a course on how to get your first sales job on the Internet like. And he has one business that teaches you how to sell.
Mert Iseri: and then a placement business that literally takes the top students and then places them for like other businesses. So he makes money from you twice you want you pay for it, and then he places you. And then it takes a percentage like this is like incredible, incredible business that makes.
Mert Iseri: I'm gonna say this slowly. Just so like the guys in the back here, he makes 3.5 million dollars per month in profit doing this. And it just does this over and over, and over, and over and over again. And, by the way, the course is literally how to get a sales job. This is motherfucker work with us to build an AI seller to sell the course. That's what I'm saying like. And he makes 3 and millions of this guy's not cost sensitive. And he was like, Hey, I wanna have an AI,
Mert Iseri: and responsibly, as soon as they come in, can you guys do that? We're like, well, yeah, yeah, we can do that. Like, my budget is, is this, can you guys? Yes, we can make that happen. Okay, awesome. Go right into work. We did not know how to send text messages.
Mert Iseri: This guy paid us, so we figured out how to learn to send text messages using Igbt, we ship the shit out of that product. It worked really great. And it goes to me, great, can you make phone calls. Can you pick up the phone synthesize voice with AI and call people over the phone?
Mert Iseri: Now, we're getting into the territory of like, I can't just Google, how to do this like this is like harder for me. Now, okay, great double the price. $80,000. We'll figure out how to make a phone call, using AI proof of concept.
Mert Iseri: And he said, yes, like, literally this, like 10 min phone call, 80 kale early on, like really fucking great like funds, the company super highly profitable. This guy's literally paying us to figure out some shit for it.
Mert Iseri: Amazing like.
Mert Iseri: who wouldn't want that.
Mert Iseri: I can assure you. There's not another cold, Gordon, that I can go and do the same shit with like. It is a nearly impossible solution, because customers, one of the things, the qualities that we should look for in my customers is that they're findable like there is a means of going and seeking out those people.
Mert Iseri: We got Hella. Lucky we got a referral to call someone that we knew. We got some early sales in there, whatever like. It's good that we got call in our customer base, but I cannot build a business just catering to cold Gordons. This is the danger here. It funds your operations. You should learn some shit with it. But just like how Tesla didn't build their entire business around the sports car, you shouldn't build your entire business around the hope that there's gonna be another cold that walks them through the door. Does that make sense
Mert Iseri: so? Regarding brand the brand brand awareness? So are you saying that tesla did not do that with sports card in the beginning. What about ordering, for example? So like branding? Are you saying that branding is not good at beginning, but then eventually, it's necessary, especially for some products like wearables or consumer.
Mert Iseri: What I'm saying is that you have a long journey ahead of you. If you're trying to describe what you do with the value of your brand, a brand is the proof that you do what you say you're going to do.
Mert Iseri: I would focus on doing that part first and then coming up with a good brand that represents that activity. A brand in and of itself ain't gonna tell shit you have to have the goods and then brand the goods with something.
Mert Iseri: I don't really get this. When people say we have a really good brand. Does that mean that you have a name! That sounds good.
Mert Iseri: that's it cool. I can come up with chat if it comes up with that, you know, in a second, right? Like a thing that sounds good isn't a brand.
Mert Iseri: and Brand is. I see it. I instantly generate trust and a premium that I'm willing to pay. As a result of that, like Apple comes up with whatever the fuck Neil's buying.
Mert Iseri: I like to do this, reordering it right. Like the people who made rabbit. The the wearable AI is made by teenage engineering. I happen to be a fan of teenage engineering. They do the whole P wants an amazing hardware product. I literally like these guys could come up with like a skipping stone, and I'll probably fucking. Buy it. That's a brand.
Mert Iseri: but
Mert Iseri: you as a startup, if you haven't done the thing that earns the right for that brand to mean something, you're wasting your fucking time.
Mert Iseri: And, most importantly, if we're talking about this as a function of marketing spend like ultimately, a brand is a thing you invest in, and you spend money to go to the trade show, run an ad, whatever that is like. Max had some like pretty, fucking, gnarly ideas around like we're digging a hole like like rare bland aligned, I can assure you they did not start with that. They did not start with doing crazy publicity stunts of like having a trib to throw shit across the border wall like that. That is not how they started.
Mert Iseri: What they started is a very straightforward marketing. Roi is profitable. With a clearly defined customer acquisition cost they tried to solve for this first.
Mert Iseri: Can I get to a place where I know that if I spend a dollar I get a customer that pays me more than a dollar like. Let's figure that out.
Mert Iseri: And again, there's experimentation in place to do that. But it's a very specific outcome like, I'm trying to spend marketing dollars to make more money.
Mert Iseri: not for anything else.
Mert Iseri: And once you have that kind of a cold truth towards your marketing spend should really start to surface. I can assure you, some of you are thinking, man, I'm gonna turn on Google ads next week. It's gonna be awesome. We're gonna have more customers, are you?
Mert Iseri: Are you really diligent about that? That if you turn on the ads and you don't get customers, are you gonna kill it.
Mert Iseri: Are you gonna keep going because it creates brand awareness.
Mert Iseri: How many of you bought something from Instagram ads in the last month?
Mert Iseri: You bought it. Where'd you get it?
Mert Iseri: Something to wear?
Mert Iseri: How many of us are in the room right now, like 50 of us, maybe 40.
Mert Iseri: How many of you saw an Instagram ad in the last month.
Mert Iseri: all of you.
Mert Iseri: How many ads do you think all of us saw in the last month in total
Mert Iseri: 100,000 ads.
Mert Iseri: All the hours was done. In September we got one sale
Mert Iseri: out of a hundred 1,000 impressions of all kinds of shapes and sizes.
Mert Iseri: What makes you different.
Mert Iseri: What makes you believe that suddenly, when you're going to turn on ads, she's just gonna work largely.
Mert Iseri: No, it's an effort you have to figure this out. You have to run a lot of small experiments. Be obsessive about it. Your AV. Testing figure. It's a dangerous thing to do. It's a dangerous gamble for your business, and it does work. Sometimes it works, it stops working, but I can assure you it is not a magic button, or, like Boy run Facebook Ad. And your customer. That is not how that shit works
Mert Iseri: is a mathematical function.
Mert Iseri: And I want you guys to sort of like, imagine it in that manner. It's so easy to run a bunch of Google ads and say to yourself as a founder, or we're just doing marketing spent towards brand awareness people. More people are going to be aware of what we do. Go ahead, Neil.
Mert Iseri: 100%.
Mert Iseri: Now, similarly, we can look at other parts we looked at and in total performance
Mert Iseri: sales performance is a normal distribution across sales team members with type X,
Mert Iseri: this is an indication that you've matured your process. This means that every rep who comes in more or less sells the same if they sell below average, and you put them on a tip and they get fired, but if they come in and they sell abovebers, maybe you promote them. You can hire accounts, whatever that is. But there's a predictable performance outcome that a sales rep can deliver for you.
Mert Iseri: I love this moment, and this is another moment. In our afternoon a little sneak peek into our afternoon as well, I love when a startup figures out when a sales rep pays for themselves.
Mert Iseri: like, what is the time period that this person needs to be productive in that
Mert Iseri: the outcome of it is like this person has killed enough beer to feed themselves. And then there's some leftover for the rest of the villagers here.
Mert Iseri: That is a thing you can measure.
Mert Iseri: There is a thing you can figure out like this. This rep
Mert Iseri: paid for themselves in this time world class would be 30 days insane. If you can have a business that the sales rep pays for itself in 30 days you are onto a rocket ship.
Mert Iseri: Most startups don't do that.
Mert Iseri: They hire the person don't work out, and their natural inclination is to go. Well, boy, I guess we need 2 sales reps. Let's go hire the next one, and then the next one, and then the next one
Mert Iseri: and, man. It's really dangerous if you have a good fundraising, because if you have 10 million dollars sitting in the bank, and your board is telling you to move sales up. It's a whole really fucking, tempting to just hire another sales rep versus making a tough call to go back to the first person and say, what the fuck are you doing here?
Mert Iseri: What's what's your what's your purpose.
Mert Iseri: You wouldn't tolerate an engineer who joins your company, and they don't write code.
Mert Iseri: What is the difference than a sales rep that joins your company that don't sell.
Mert Iseri: Why are you here?
Mert Iseri: What are we spending our time and effort on?
Mert Iseri: You shouldn't be here
Mert Iseri: if we have a sales distribution that is somewhat universal amongst ourselves. This indicates a level of maturity that our sales have become predictable, that we know the activities are getting us outcomes. Go ahead
Mert Iseri: some great examples, and by how? It doesn't please know what's for sort of account from that perspective. But the other question is, if the How do you know problem is that what the the selling that the salesperson it has with the product not being sellable versus their inability to sell, because early on we have shown that the founder can sell.
Mert Iseri: I'm not saying the whole excel, and it's fair.
Mert Iseri: Here's what a great sales interview looks like.
Mert Iseri: I sit down.
Mert Iseri: A creature sales rep
Mert Iseri: Jennifer, I go. Jennifer, really excited for you to be here. You know your past performance from gone salesforce slack. Show me that you're a killer, really really impressed with what you've been able to do. I think we can be really successful together
Mert Iseri: is my expectation of you.
Mert Iseri: In the past 90 days I, amongst one all of my other responsibilities, made this many phone calls, sent this many Linkedin Dms sent this many looms that I made for prospects that led to this many demos, and of those Demos. It led to this many proposals that I've sent to customers of which this many of them signed.
Mert Iseri: It resulted in $127,000 in sales.
Mert Iseri: I did that
Mert Iseri: to jump in.
Mert Iseri: I did that with approximately 20% of my time.
Mert Iseri: You're coming in here.
Mert Iseri: and you're gonna be spending all of your time doing what I just did.
Mert Iseri: My expectation for you for the first 90 days is to do that and a little bit more.
Mert Iseri: and I'll be really impressed if you do double that. But your job is to do at least that
Mert Iseri: if you cannot do that. We're going to have to have a direct but kind conversation about why you can't be here anymore.
Mert Iseri: because it took me 30 days to generate the pipeline for those supposed 90 days. I'm going to be sitting down with you daily to ensure that your pipeline looks like that on day 30 the one. I
Mert Iseri: I'm not asking you to do anything, but I haven't fucking done myself.
Mert Iseri: and if you're not okay with that implicit agreement you should not be working here. I will.
Mert Iseri: but I will reject you from joining us
Mert Iseri: now. A good rep will look at them and go.
Mert Iseri: We did what in that case, and you you.
Mert Iseri: I'm 10 times better sales rep. Then I should do 1.2 7 million in them the first 90 days. Watch me.
Mert Iseri: I don't know about you guys. That's the fuck I want to hire. That's the person that is here
Mert Iseri: kill to create something for themselves. And they see that this is a product that they know they can sell.
Mert Iseri: We've gone 3 levels until we got to here.
Mert Iseri: There's plenty of indications in those 3 levels that show you that our product actually works pretty fucking? Well, that it pays for itself. People are deliriously happy that if I take it away they riot that there's a waitress of people like there's a lot of sales poo points in there that are concrete that earned the right for me to hire sales. Rep.
Mert Iseri: I should not be talking about hiring people to sell my products as if.
Mert Iseri: oh, my God! Like a sales rep will come and just do this thing that I don't know how to do, because, of course, it's a giant risk. What if you have the wrong products the levels before this is designed so that you have a product that you can charge, whatever the fuck you want for
Mert Iseri: that is true value, like you've shown in a real matter that what you're doing matters.
Mert Iseri: All that is you to build a sales team when you divis your business at that level. Does that make sense?
Mert Iseri: Now, finally, revenues distributed across a diverse set of customers. This indicates a set of normalization.
Mert Iseri: I like, I go in and out. There's 5 things I can buy.
Mert Iseri: I'm not complaining that they don't have a hot dog like the Burger is pretty fucking good like
Mert Iseri: we started off. And if we're sort of like building, not a software business, but a Burger business. You might start off making custom burgers for Jeff Bezos. It uses a wadi blend of like perfect dishes with this or whatever at some point it turns into a really fucking good smash, Burger, and you just pump it up over and over and over and over again.
Mert Iseri: Early on Japan started off. We did these custom AI projects. You have a sales funnel will come in automated way. AI. It basically looks like consulting. Now, look, you want the inbound responder. Great 40 grand a year. You want the outbound email hunter. They're just like us prospecting for you. 60 K. Which one you want. You're gonna negotiate fine 50 KA year. But that's it. It's not less than that.
Mert Iseri: And why I'm confident in charging you that I know it's gonna pay for myself. In the first 90 days. Great 10% down. Pay me the rest when I hit the number. And there's there's a predictability built into that. And this shows you sort of like a.
Mert Iseri: The outcome is normalized customers. But the input is a normalized product, a consistent product. Go ahead.
Mert Iseri: Once, did this transition happens. Is this a schedule, an appetite?
Mert Iseri: Terms pivoting from
Mert Iseri: those big whales? More to? Actually.
Mert Iseri: I think if you find yourself in here you want.
Mert Iseri: This is what I'm trying to show you guys.
Mert Iseri: if you if the startup is a video game and we've achieved this and boy, this is really F and hard to achieve without concrete on the previous floors. Because what happens? We hire a giant team without the rival product crumbles like they can't sell it like what happens if we've been investing a shit ton of money on like reliability and shit breaks all the time? What is the sales? I'm gonna just gonna get problematic customers for more of us like if we can get the concrete on all levels and reach concrete on this level.
Mert Iseri: Gabe gives us the prize. We rescued the Princess. Go ahead.
Mert Iseri: Our list work initially was discussed.
Mert Iseri: Yeah, when did this work become?
Mert Iseri: Customers started asking for the same thing.
Mert Iseri: And more importantly, we start approaching customers
Mert Iseri: with this kind of like a language. Hey? Notice that you have an inbound phone fill.
Mert Iseri: I noticed that I'm curious. Some of our previous customers have told us that there's a giant difference, 64% difference to be specific of the number of people who fill out that form versus the number of people that actually turn out to be an opportunity in the Sierra.
Mert Iseri: I'm curious. You have that problem.
Mert Iseri: I know the fucking answer.
Mert Iseri: Yeah, they do.
Mert Iseri: and if they don't, by the way, I say, let's go and check that number. That's a great prospecting call, you know, like most early, like discovery calls are like, we have this feature. Our car is blue and the website is pink, and it's awesome. Look, look at all these features. You know what I think, is a great discovery call. Let's dig into your Crm. I wonder if you have this problem.
Mert Iseri: and they dig in and go shit.
Mert Iseri: We do get 54 kills a day, and only 17 of them turn into opportunities. Why isn't that number more like? Well.
Mert Iseri: there's not more. Because let's take a look at how long it takes for your sales reps to get back to those leads. We can actually measure that like we know the time of the form Bill. We know the time of the first inquiries like, Oh, like turns out to take you on average like 6 h for these people to get back to you.
Mert Iseri: I have a thing that reduces that 6 h to 6 min. You want it.
Mert Iseri: I don't have to tell him how I do it. You want. Of course, you wanna like, it's a very natural thing, because I understand the problem at a deep level that one show the other person like that this mother knows what he's talking about. And BI don't have to sort of like, define to you like how we're gonna like go sort this out. I know that I can drag and drop this burger is gonna fill you up like I know how to get more out of that funnel. I know how to squeeze more toothpaste out of this.
Mert Iseri: and this is a great sort of like a persona for your customers to look at. You are a Tenx expert. You obsess over this one part of my life
Mert Iseri: that you are like the world's greatest stats. Max said this in the in the beginning of our breakfast this morning. It is another thing that I want to tattoo this time as a tramp stamp. I want to put it here doesn't matter if you're the best at something.
Mert Iseri: What really matters that if you're the only at something like I'm the only one the fucker that really understands how AI optimizes inbound form funnels. This is a really great place to be as a start. I don't be the only regenerative like travel solution, the only one I'm the only
Mert Iseri: if you find yourself being the only at something that a lot of people want. Great, let's move on to the other levels. This is my my indication. And again, by the way, I am hunting for that thing, that's the other part. I'm not just like waiting for this thing to happen. I'm constantly trying out of my sales conversations like, Hey, what if I sell the same thing over and over again? What happens like
Mert Iseri: the the people buy the same thing do I have to go to the custom route. This is the dead dance that we play in this early on. I'm looking forward to think that I can just like copy pasting to the next customer, and that's why the progress here is fast. Go ahead, Liliana. Can you clarify.
Mert Iseri: not cause for alarm if they see a competitor doing the same thing. I think a lot of early stage try to get really sensitive when they see someone doing the exact same thing, or seemingly the same thing, and then think that's kind of the end of the world.
Mert Iseri: Look.
Mert Iseri: I have
Mert Iseri: but like this, like strong belief that
Mert Iseri: competition is for losers
Mert Iseri: like, if you're worried about your competition, you're worrying about the wrong thing, like
Mert Iseri: most businesses don't go out of business because their competitor like beat them, or something like this, is not a cause of concern like, I know this is somewhat controversial. Like every business plan, competition never like asked for competitive analysis like, how are you different than this are different than that?
Mert Iseri: Chances are are way. More likely that you're gonna go out of business because you made a dumb decision on market expect chances are you're gonna go out of business because your customers told you to build something that you just didn't build in prioritize in your product suite, like
Mert Iseri: sure competitive risk is a risk. But what is way more likely is that you fucked up on your execution?
Mert Iseri: I view competition to what I'm doing as almost a badge of honor, Brace. People are interested in the same thing. Do you really think Japan is like the only sales automation tool out there. Of course not. But of of course everybody's trying to build a company in the space right now. Congratulations like validation. I take it as an assumption that if I'm building anything worthwhile there's at least 10 other teams with 10 other smarter people than I am, with more resources going after the exact same value proposition
Mert Iseri: I just had set out to compete with them. I view it as like, you know, the Kung Fu panto, like finally, a worthy competitor. Great like puzzle, like finally, a worthy competitor. Let's keep going at this. I really wanna like, remove the anxiety of like competition from your conversations. Look, if you find yourself in a place, and you rarely will. You find yourself in a place where you're constantly going head to head against this one other company. Congratulations! It's turning into a duopoly like you're fighting head to head with this one other customer.
Mert Iseri: What you're way more likely doing is, put Tom, going to a customer, and they have a spreadsheet instead of what you're doing. Like, they're using the automation of like they're trying to build a chat to video system that fucking sucks. If it's not drag and drop, it's not working well, like they just want a thing that just works.
Mert Iseri: You're way more likely to find that customer than otherwise. Like you're way more likely to find
Mert Iseri: an early employee at Google that's trying to like work with their investment advisor on how to do. Put some derivatives and shit like that. They're like pulling their hair out like they're trying to figure this out. I can't do this at some point I could, but they're trying to figure out, but I can't versus like, Oh, we got the touch to. They also sell like insurance on like ours that go down and like we're fighting for the same attention. Now you're fighting for the attention of doing nothing that is way more likely to happen. So please do not worry about this. If anything.
Mert Iseri: I get a little worried. If there's nobody competing with me like if there's nobody going after this.
Mert Iseri: This is actually a pretty cost for construct, like I. I don't like that like there's way more likelihood that I'm just going after a dumb idea, and like a non existent problem versus like, I'm the first person to figure this out ever and like no one has woken up to the fact yet. That's my position on on competition. Try to find a niche where you're like. This is what I obsess over this is my thing.
Mert Iseri: I had this wonderful experience.
Mert Iseri: Recently I was in Japan. I went to Japan.
Mert Iseri: and it was for no other reason that we want to co work from a cool place. This is like one of the gifts that we give ourselves for me and my co-founder. We're profitable as a business, so we kind of like don't know what to do with our money like. There's no sensible way to spend our money right now other than paying ourselves, and we can only pay ourselves so much. Then, like we feel bad. I'm like, we gotta get best. So we co work from my cool places. So we decided to go to Japan
Mert Iseri: once again for
Mert Iseri: 2 weeks.
Mert Iseri: and we found this one score.
Mert Iseri: Fuji Rama was the name of this store.
Mert Iseri: and there's this like old dying there.
Mert Iseri: and he's a
Mert Iseri: what do you call it? As a tailor like? He makes these like Japanese, not kimono, but like homeware with like indigo dies.
Mert Iseri: That was very beautiful, very beautiful, meticulous like, because I haven't making
Mert Iseri: homeware for like the past 50 years.
Mert Iseri: it's what I do.
Mert Iseri: And he had this like rack of like
Mert Iseri: the jackets, and the one in the end looked a little different. I was like, what's that one that looks cool? It looked a little bit more like and more soul to it.
Mert Iseri: And the guy was like, that's what it's gonna look like in 20 years
Mert Iseri: like this. Motherfucker put on this on the little display
Mert Iseri: what the jacket that the homeware is gonna look like in 20 years.
Mert Iseri: There's plenty of textiles that I can buy in Japan.
Mert Iseri: I was like, Bro.
Mert Iseri: Take my money like I'm I'm getting at it like this student has carved out a place where like this is my craft.
Mert Iseri: There's a word for this. By the way, in in Japan it's called Shokuni
Mert Iseri: spoken. It means craft craftsmen, like someone who, like obsesses over a craft.
Mert Iseri: and this is very prevalent in Japanese culture is more than occupation. It's almost like a way of living where people like dedicate themselves to like. One thing, I'm going to be the best sushi chef ever. I'm going to be the best sweeper ever like. There's a level of like intentionality, and like obsession over excellence and continuous improvement over time and joy that comes from that. And like, I'm helping people through this work. This really matters to me.
Mert Iseri: There's a level of respect that immediately arises from inside you. If you put yourself on that path, I'm gonna be the Chopin of optimizing your inbound funnel. I'm gonna obsess over this.
Mert Iseri: and of all the people that you need in your life that could potentially solve this problem. I want you to work with me. And I want you guys so like, have this level of dedication to whatever it is that you're doing, whether it is like home decor using AI jenitor travel. Know your customers. Whatever I want. You guys sort of like, look at those problems and obsess over and save yourself. I'm the only motherfucker that cares about this as much as I do.
Mert Iseri: and through that journey you'll figure something out that that only you can do in the world, and it's hard to do. It takes time, and this part of it built jackets for 50 years to put that thing on the shelf, literally like it took 20 years for that thing to weather and age for that level. But I want you guys so like think in decades in that manner. I know this might not have had anything to do with the question you asked Leona. But I had to share this.
Mert Iseri: Okay.
Mert Iseri: concrete on level 4
Mert Iseri: tumbles.
Mert Iseri: You need concrete at all levels to reach product microphones. This was a long journey.
Mert Iseri: But I want to emphasize what I've been saying all along.
Mert Iseri: If you want to win this game of startups, if you want to figure out how to charge more for your product.
Mert Iseri: You need to systematically work on. Am I scaffolding?
Mert Iseri: Let me get concrete on that level, but not concrete. On the next level. You have to have the potential to say, stop to yourself and say, that's concrete on level 4, let's get reliability. First, let's get a wait list first, whatever that is.
Mert Iseri: you work in all levels as an early stage startup, a concrete on one floor makes the next level easier. And th. This is a thing that I've now come to experience. Things have been going pretty smooth at Janet, because we've been very intentional about what we worry about. And we laser focus on going from scaffolding to concrete on one level, and we do not worry about the other levels. We do the bare minimum anecdotal is of the founder sales. I don't care. We're on level 3 right now.
Mert Iseri: and you can't build a big company with just scaffolding. It just crashes on birds.
Mert Iseri: This is why you get layoffs.
Mert Iseri: This is why you get shitty down wrapped. This is why you get executive teams that are bloated. This is why you get like, Oh, man like, I wish, like we just worked out of an office, whatever the fuck that is for you like, it's just wasted effort.
Mert Iseri: You start with scaffolding, and you work towards concrete. I want to emphasize this. I get it. It's hard to build concrete. Go ahead. PC, put your call under and have up to your plan of like. Okay, this scaffolding is Abcd and concrete actions, or
Mert Iseri: for the whole 4 floors? Or do you go one by one and then figure out what's the next step? We do it at the sprint level, like every 2 weeks we decide on priorities like, what do we do? Whatever. And we have the same. We let the small fires burn like
Mert Iseri: if the house, if the house on file problem is that we 50% of our text aren't being delivered or like all the emails we're sending is ending up in spam. Okay, let's not worry about how we're going to measure our own is people ended like responding initially. But let's fix that first. Like, it becomes sort of like a discipline approach on what we prioritize like, what are we going to spend majority of our brain power thinking about
Mert Iseri: this is more of like a checklist for you to figure out what you do on a day-to-day basis. This isn't like, hey? Let's come with a perfect business plan for the next year.
Mert Iseri: Who the fuck knows? What's gonna happen next month like things change. But what you do have control over is that what am I gonna spend my time on today? What am I gonna do today? What am I gonna worry about? What am I gonna like
Mert Iseri: like target this brain way that I have into making a little bit better? And is that thing more important than that that thing. This is why, again, video game analogy here works. Because this is kind of video game that's kind of like a free, open world like you just are born and can go right. You can go left. You can go straight. There's no like next level next level next level. We're trying to put some order into this really chaotic world of like, if you do whatever you want. So this is more of a prioritization tool.
Mert Iseri: Now, I have one question for you guys go ahead. Oh, up another. So time-wise like, do you think about like
Mert Iseri: what makes sense in terms of like? If we spend too much time on this scaffolding on the ground floor. It's a sign that you know we're doing something wrong and
Mert Iseri: way to people like. Are there any parameters in terms of time as to what it takes to progress. Every business progress metric is different. It's actually a like a directly correlates with your sales cycle like to me. How fast the customer says yes or no to you is a direct correlation to the speeding which you can iterate in your business, because we have to go through a cycle to figure out whether it's a Yay or a whole lot easier showed up on our website and makes some change. 50 of them become customers versus 10 like very easy.
Mert Iseri: really hard to do this with a healthcare company, because shit like hospitals. Take a fucking wild thing like we make a change. We don't know if it worked out or not sales cycle legs. So I'm not gonna say you should do XYZ. In a week or month, or whatever. But I want you guys sort of like, think of this as sort of a are we investing our time in the worthy thing right now.
Mert Iseri: because there's a very good chance that you over investment thing that just does not matter.
Mert Iseri: or a board member, or Neil, or like whomever like a strategic partner comes and asks you, why aren't you doing this other thing?
Mert Iseri: I want you to have the spot to say, well, that thing doesn't matter right now.
Mert Iseri: They're like what it doesn't matter in my past business. It really matters like, well, wait a minute. Sounds like in your past business. You have some concrete on this floor before you did that. I'm trying to get concrete here. That's what I'm trying to do. It's a justification for how you focus your energy.
Mert Iseri: And that's a very fruitful conversation like this. This kind of like jamming with someone who's a thought partner, another founder, another lucky investor. Whatever like this is a really good vetting for the investor that you choose to work with, like, if I'm sitting down with an investor, and I'm having a thoughtful conversation about like, alright, here are the 4 levels. This is what we're doing here. What do you think? How do we go from concrete scaffolding from here, and they have Jack Wall advice for you. Maybe they're not that good of an investor.
Mert Iseri: or maybe they're not a good fit for you
Mert Iseri: or you're hiring a person to like work on your engineering department, whatever it is. And you're trying to say, like, I wanna go from like this year to this year. How do I get there? And they don't have a means of explaining to you how they did that in the previous company. Maybe they're not the right step.
Mert Iseri: This is what I want you guys to use almost as like a rubric for your business and make this your own. Every business is different. But I want you guys sort of like, think of this as sort of like, I'm graduating from one level to the next, because, unfortunately, most people aren't honest about this.
Mert Iseri: They assume, man, we're gonna raise around. We're gonna hire some sales reps. We're gonna run some Google ads and everything's gonna be married, and they assume that their fundraising efforts are not working because they're not good at presenting a deck, and they need to be more articulate at it. They need to be more charismatic about it, or whatever whatever doesn't matter.
Mert Iseri: What you set out to do is to build a money printer.
Mert Iseri: I don't know about you guys. I think Mark Zuckerberg is basically a fucking android like this. Dude has got billions still, can't fucking. Put 2 sentences next to each other
Mert Iseri: do we care?
Mert Iseri: Facebook is a money fucking printer. And, by the way, if you want to, real look at like, what did we? This dude was like, look at this like early fundraising videos, like early Facebook videos, like, now, he's on the digital path like throwing Mma fights and shit whatever. But like definitely. He's not like an impressive charismatic, whatever person
Mert Iseri: but you know what it is. It was like, well, you know, these are my metrics, and
Mert Iseri: this is a level in which we're growing like, if you look at the early Facebook deck, the numbers that they're putting is like dude like this is from the stratosphere.
Mert Iseri: and I see so many founders worrying about their charisma, worrying about like man. I just like do a better job presenting and like. Get the warm introduction whatever. No.
Mert Iseri: you worry about building the right business, and you watch people line up
Mert Iseri: like man. Can we please nest in your business?
Mert Iseri: And I'm really interested. As a result of this talk.
Mert Iseri: what come to Jesus conversation? Are you guys gonna have internally, with your co-founders, with yourself
Mert Iseri: like so much of this bullshit happens internally, like we convince ourselves that we're further alarm because it feels good, like man startups are hardest shit. It's really convenient to think that we're further along than we actually are.
Mert Iseri: where it takes a lot of courage, a lot of boldness to sit down and say.
Mert Iseri: we're just scaffolding on level one. But it's okay. Here's what we're gonna do next gets concrete. Here's the concrete things that we're gonna do. And I'm not gonna worry about this other thing, because I've been really so. We're figuring this one thing out with a net output, predictable, profitable customers.
Mert Iseri: Now
Mert Iseri: I see and acknowledge I'm an operator myself. Doing all of this takes time.
Mert Iseri: Do all of this is effort. Do. All of this is a function of how much of your intelligence applied over time, like all of you are fairly smart, great. You apply that intelligence over a month yields you a different problem output than if you applied intelligence over a year
Mert Iseri: and a direct function of how long you're able to do that is correlated to how much money that you spent.
Mert Iseri: And that's next thing that we're going to talk about this afternoon. We're going to talk about why you should not be spending money on shit.
Mert Iseri: and we're going to get real deep about why that should be the case.
Mert Iseri: So thank you all. I appreciate you guys for giving me the chance. Here.
Mert Iseri: Thank you, David. I think you're an absolute G. 2. Now we're 3 min early. Bathroom, break coffee, break whatever that is. Sophie, go ahead.
Mert Iseri: Got it. These 2 conference rooms over here from our in that perfect? Alright. So you guys there, thank you all.
Mert Iseri: Alright. If we go by the paper or somewhere, will that be
Mert Iseri: what I gotta do?